Owner: uw-bothell-csse:pathway:choose-your-pathway
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/stem/undergraduate/majors/bscsse/curriculum
Title: CSSE Curriculum - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics

[Supplemental official source] Culminating Experience
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
* CSS 432 Computer Networking
* INFO 314: Computer Networks and Distributed Applications
* T INFO 250 Foundations of Information Networking
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
10 credits at 300-level or higher in any subject area
300-400 Level Electives (15 credits / usually 3 courses)
425.352.5000
425.352.5490
About
Accessibility
Actuarial Science
Additional courses: As needed to fulfill the University General Education Requirements
Admissions
Advising
After admission into the general CSSE major, you can contact the advising office at cssadv@uw.edu to switch into the IAC option. Please include your name and student ID number.
All UW Bothell
Alumni
Analysis & Problem Solving
Any ONE of the following courses to be selected:
Applied Computing
Apply As Undergraduate
Approved Independent Study in Chemistry (B CHEM 498) (1–5 credits, maximum 10)
Approved Undergraduate Research in Chemistry (B CHEM 499) (1–5 credits, maximum 10)
Associate Professor with Tenure
Awards & Endowments
B CHEM 237 Organic Chemistry I (4 credits)
B CHEM 238/241 Organic Chemistry II w/ Lab (4+3 credits)
B CHEM 239/242 Organic Chemistry III w/ Lab (4+3 credits)
B CHEM 494 Special Topics in Biochemistry (3 credits, maximum 12)
B CHEM 497 Apprenticeship in Chemistry Education (1–3 credits, maximum 6)
B PHYS 114/117 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 115/118 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 116/119 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 121 Mechanics (5 credits)
B PHYS 122 Electromagnetism and Oscillatory Motion (5 credits)
B PHYS 123 Waves (5 credits)
B.S. in Chemistry (biochemistry option)
BBIO 285 (Seminar in Biology) ; also fulfills SSc
BBIO 293/393 (Special Topics in Biology)
BBIO 330 (Marine Biology)
BBIO 335 (Salmon and Society)
BBIO 340 (Computational Biology)
BBIO 370 (Microbiology I)
BBIO 372 (Stem Cells)
BBIO 380 (Cell Biology)
BBIO 383 (Bioinformatics)
BBIO 385 (Animal Behavior)
BBIO 470 (Microbiology II)
BBIO 471 (Plant Ecology)
BBIO/BCHEM 364 (Biochemistry I)
BBIO/BCHEM 365 (Biochemistry II)
BBIO/BCHEM 366 (Biochemistry Lab) ; only 3 credits
BBIO/BCHEM 375 (Molecular Biology)
BES 312 (Ecology)
BES 316 (Ecological Methods)
BES 330 (Limnology)
BES 362 (Restoration Ecology)
BES 397/497 (Special Topics in Environmental Science)
BES 485 (Conservation Biology)
Biological Sciences
Biology
Biomedical
Biomedical Systems and Devices
BIS 293/393/493 (Special Topics)
BIS 306 (Marine Diversity and Conservation)
BIS 342 (Geographic Information Systems)
BISSTS 397/497 (Topics in Science, Technology, and Society) ; also fulfills SSc
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Business Case Justification: Justifies project expenditures, equipment and other resources in terms of business costs, benefits and risks.
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone
Capstones
Career Resources
Careers
Center for Biotechnology Innovation & Training
Chemistry
Choose one of the following three-course series options:
Choose your pathway
Close mobile menu
Collaboration & Team Building: Collaborates effectively with others to achieve a common objective, creates an environment that fosters and sustains successful teamwork.
Commuter Services
Complete five additional credits of approved 300- or 400-level courses offered by the School of STEM.
Computer Engineering
Computer Science & Software Engineering
Computer Science &#038; Software Engineering (CSSE)
Computing &#038; Software Systems
Computing-related courses that are not included on the core or elective requirements lists are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you wish to use as an elective, you may submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Computing-related courses that are not listed above or transfer courses are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you want to use as an elective, you can submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core Courses
Course
Creativity: Challenges existing assumptions, proposes novel alternative ways to framing or solving a problem, pushes the boundaries of knowledge.
CSS 310: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity
CSS 337 Secure Systems
CSS 411 Computer Technology and Public Policy
CSS 415 Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
CSS Labs
CSS Registration
Culminating Experience
Culminating Experience - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
Current site
Curriculum
Cybersecurity
Data Science
Declaring the IAC option
Department of Biological Sciences Faculty
Department of Computing & Software Systems Faculty
Department of Engineering & Mathematics Faculty
Department of Physical Sciences Faculty
Department of Physical Sciences Research
Departments
Directory
Earth System Science
EE Open lab schedule
Efficiency: Identifies ways to solve problems or complete tasks smoothly and effectively; choose the optimum solution form and set of alternative possibilities.
Elective Courses
Electrical Engineering
Engineering &#038; Mathematics
Events
Excellence in Cybersecurity Education
Expand Navigation
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty Research Projects
Foundation Level
Frequently Asked Questions
Friday Harbor Laboratories
Full Professor
General Business, Social & Technical
Getting Started with Computer Science
Give
Graduate
Graduate Certificate in Electrical & Computer Engineering Foundations
Graduate Certificate in Software Design & Development
Graduate Programs
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Heritage University REU
How to Apply
Human Resources
IAC-option students take the same core courses as those of the general CSSE major, but replace the 25 credits of &#8220;CSS Electives&#8221; with the courses below:
In this section
Industry partners
INFO 312: Enterprise Risk Management
INFO 415: Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) is a Computer Science & Software Engineering pathway that covers the creation and management of safe and secure systems. All organizations—large or small, public or private—rely on secure systems for individual and organizational privacy and security. The IAC option prepares students to create, deploy, and manage systems that ensure the security of any organization.
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) option
Information Gathering: Effectively searches out and organizes pertinent information before making decisions or taking actions.
Information Technology
Information Technology (IT)
Internship
Interpersonal Skills
Investigative Biology
Jobs
Laboratories
Leadership: Champions new ideas, persuades and influences, breaks logjams, and promotes momentum toward solving problems.
Learning by Doing: Demonstrates the ability to learn continuously, capitalize on mistakes, exploit new knowledge, increase productivity over time.
Learning goals
Library
List of category &#039;A&#039; courses (Biodiversity / Ecology / Evolution)
List of category &#039;B&#039; courses (Cellular / Molecular Biology)
Majors
Management Skills
Managing Change & Uncertainty: Adapts to changing circumstances, deals positively with uncertainties and contingencies, manages crises effectively.
Maps & directions
Marine Biology
Master of Science in Computer Science & Software Engineering
Master of Science in Cybersecurity Engineering
Master of Science in Electrical & Computer Engineering
Materials
Mathematical Principles and Techniques: Understands theory and application of numerical, statistical, set theory, and other mathematical techniques in the context of applications and systems programming.
Mathematics
May be additional CSS electives or electives from other subject areas
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering Research
Microelectronics and Devices
Minimum 15 credits (3 courses) of elective coursework from the lists below. Only one networking class (CSS 432, INFO 314, or T INFO 250; marked with an asterisk * ) may be taken.
Minimum 2.0 grade for any course applied to the major.
Minimum 2.0 grade is required in each one of the above chemistry courses.
Minimum of 5 additional credits (usually 1 course) of 200-level or higher CSS Elective coursework in any topic.
Minors
More Links
MyUW
National Center of Academic Excellence in Cybersecurity
Neuroscience
News
Ocean Engineering
Open mobile menu
Option 1
Option 2
Organic Chemistry series
Petition
Petitions
Physical Sciences
Physics
Physics series
Power &#038; Energy
Prerequisites guide
Present and defend research
Previous Quarters
Privacy
Process Reengineering: Performs business requirement analysis, using appropriate tools and methodologies to maximize organizational performance.
Project
Project Administration: Administers and maintains projects, using appropriate monitoring tools and complying with relevant standards and reporting requirements.
Project Management: Plans, monitors, and controls projects; ensures efficient utilization of resources; keeps projects on schedule and within budgeted resource allocation.
Project or Thesis
Promotion & Tenure Guidelines
Promotion and Tenure Public Statement
Quick Links
Read more about the Culminating course process
Read more about the Culminating internship process
Read more about the project process
Read more about the thesis process
Requirements
Research
Research &#038; Internships
Research &#038; labs
Research Experiences for Undergraduates
Resources
Risk Management: Foresees and takes action pro-actively in anticipation of future problems and opportunities.
Rules Docket
Safety and Security Studies and Modeling in Fluids
School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Signal Processing
Skip To Content
Staff
STEM Advisory Board
STEM Symposium Event
stemgrad@uw.edu
STMATH 207 Introduction to Differential Equations (5 credits)
STMATH 208 Matrix Algebra with Applications (5 credits)
Student Forms &#038; Resources
Student Organizations
Students can choose any 300- or 400-level course listed in the School of STEM time schedule as an elective. If the course is from UW Seattle or is outside of a STEM major, students must submit a to the department using the Chemistry Major or Minor Requirement Petition form.
Students choose one of four Culminating Experience pathways depending on which will best allow them to reach their academic and professional goals: project, thesis, coursework, or internship. Students must complete all 15 credits of core coursework and 15 credits of electives by the time they begin their 10 credit Culminating Experience.
Students choose one of three 5-credit culminating cybersecurity courses (CSS 538 in autumn, CSS 518 in winter, or CSS 539 in spring) to apply and advance learnings from their core and elective coursework. A deliverable (such as a comprehensive report) will be produced by the student at the end of the quarter. To complete the coursework option, students take one additional 5-credit elective, bringing their elective total for the degree to 25.
Students complete a 10-credit project (CSS 595) which involves working under the guidance of a faculty committee to apply knowledge obtained from the program’s curriculum to build connections between academic concepts and the application of those concepts into real-world context. Students present and defend their work at the end of the program and produce a comprehensive report of their findings.
Students complete a 10-credit thesis (CSS 700) which involves working under the guidance of a faculty committee to apply knowledge obtained from the program’s curriculum to conduct research and produce a scholarly written document aimed at an academic audience as a contribution to an existing body of knowledge. Students present and defend the culmination of their work at the end of the master&#8217;s program.
Students pursuing the project or thesis Culminating Experience will present their research to their faculty committee. Check out recent titles and abstracts in the final defense schedule to learn more about the latest master&#8217;s student research.
Students who secure and finish a cybersecurity-related internship will complete 5 credits of CSS 601 Internship where they work with a faculty sponsor to set learning goals and demonstrate their ability to apply their learnings from the curriculum in a professional and practical setting. To complete the internship Culminating Experience option, students take one additional 5-credit elective, bringing their elective total for the degree to 25.
Submit a CSSE major / minor petition
Submit an applied computing petition
Systemic Thinking: Follows a well-ordered and logical approach to analyzing problems, organizing work, and searching for solutions.
T INFO 441 Network Security
T INFO 442 Computer Security
T INFO 443 Digital Forensics
Tacoma Campus
Teaching Effectiveness Public Statement
Teaching Track Faculty
Technical Level
Technology Evaluation and Selection: Evaluates and selects software and hardware appropriate to the application, architecture and resource constraints; maintains awareness and understanding of emerging technology.
Terms
The Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (biochemistry option) allows students to pursue a rigorous curriculum focused on the atomic and molecular nature of the world around us. The degree includes the traditional areas of chemistry (organic, inorganic, physical, and analytical), with the additional concentration on Biochemistry. It has a higher amount of core required courses and fewer electives.
The Culminating Experience requirement of the Master of Science in Cybersecurity Engineering degree allows students to use what they have learned in their core and elective coursework to demonstrate critical understanding and the ability to both expand upon and apply what they have learned in various ways.
The Foundation Level includes very broad competencies that are found in every CSS core course. The Technical Level is a set of broadly important competencies specific to the software engineering and computer science professions, to be developed in every undergraduate CSS education, across the set of required core courses. Competencies specific to the interests and needs of the individual student are achieved in the CSS advanced elective courses.
The learning objectives for the Bachelor of Arts in Applied Computing and the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Software Engineering are described in terms of competencies achieved by students within the CSS programs.
These courses may overlap with your General Education requirements (A&H, SSc, DIV, etc.), above, as long as they are 300-level or higher.
Thesis
Thesis/Project Final Defense Schedule
This option also requires a lot of time-consuming lab work , so we recommend working proactively with your academic adviser when planning your academic schedule.
This tri-campus pathway allows students to select from an approved list of courses offered from all three UW campuses: Bothell, Seattle, and Tacoma. The electives at each campus emphasize the strengths found in the programs offered there, and course topics include information assurance policy, secure coding, and networking and systems security.
Thoroughness: Ensures that work is done correctly, completely, on time and to the highest standards.
Time Schedule
Tuition
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Policies & Procedures
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 290, 390, or 490 (Special Topics)
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 397 (Internship), 498 (Independent Study), or 499 (Undergraduate Research)
Upper division biology electives
Upper division STEM electives
User Orientation: Gains understanding of users needs by immersing self in users environment; carefully studies user&#8217;s requirements; puts self in users shoes.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell IAC electives
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UW Seattle IAC electives
UW Tacoma IAC electives
Visitors
Wireless, RF/Microwave, and Telecommunications
Workday Login
Writing & Speaking: Expresses ideas correctly and convincingly in reports, memos and other forms of written communication
You must complete 20 credits (usually four courses) of upper division (300-level or higher) biology elective coursework. You must choose your electives from at least two out of three of the following categories. Click the category titles to see lists of approved courses.
