Owner: uw-bothell-health-studies
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/nhs/undergraduate/health-studies/overview
Title: Overview - School of Nursing & Health Studies

[Supplemental official source] Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Student Requirements
*BHS 300 requirement: BHS 300 can be substituted for an approved introductory research methods course. If you would like to take BHS 300 in an upcoming quarter, please note that BHS 210 (Community Health Promotion & Communication) is a pre-/co-requisite to BHS 300. If you would like to pursue a course substitution petition for BHS 300 or a pre-requisite exception request to enroll in BHS 300, please contact the Academic Advising Office (uwbadvis@uw.edu).
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
$64.99 &#8211; eLearning &#8211; Medical Document Manager
10 credits of approved Global Health Minor Elective courses. Students must take at least 5 credits from two of the following three categories:
15
180
18115 Campus Way NE
35
425.352.5000
425.352.5376
45
5
90
A Bachelor&#8217;s Degree requires 180 applicable credits. Students typically transfer in 90 lower division credits. Those who do not will need to complete the missing credits to reach the 180 required for the undergraduate degree.
About
Accessibility
Accreditation
Acknowledgment of Blood-Borne Pathogen Policy
Acknowledgment of Social Networking Policy
Additional information
Admissions
Admitted applicants can place an order for their background check through the CastleBranch portal .
Admitted students
Advising & info sessions
Advising worksheet
All students must pay the required fee for this service, waivers are not available.
All UW Bothell
Alumni
Alumni highlights
Analyze the impacts of population level healthcare policies and systems from a local to global perspective.
Annual Criminal Disclosure Form
Apply As Undergraduate
Approved Health Studies Electives, with at least 10 credits in B HLTH course offerings
As a student in the program, you will complete a minimum of 100 practice hours. These practice hours are integrated into two courses, BNURS 460 (35 hours) Translating Scholarly Knowledge to Nursing Practice, and BNURS 424 (65 hours) Population-based Health in Community Practice.
Authorization for Release of Records Form
Autumn
B HLTH 201 (Introduction to Global Health) &#8211; offered Autumn
B HLTH 301 (Global Health Practice: Systems, Places, and People) &#8211; offered Winter
B HLTH 423 (Global Health: Critical Perspectives) &#8211; offered Spring
B HLTH 435 (Foundations & Principles of Health Education & Communication) – offered Autumn
B HLTH 436 (Intro to Management & Leadership for Health Professionals) – offered Spring
B HLTH 437 (Program Planning and Strategies for Health Promotion) – offered Winter
B HLTH 438 (Program Evaluation for Health Education & Promotion) – offered Spring
Background Check (annual check)
Background check policy
Background check process
Background checks that show evidence of a positive criminal history are considered on a case-by-case basis. For examples of offenses that would result in ineligibility, see the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services Disqualifying list of Crimes and Negative Actions .
Because BHS 201, 300, and 305 are a part of the core requirements within the Health Studies major, students who complete the BA in Health Studies degree will only need to add 20 credits (4 courses) to their graduation plan to finish this minor (BHLTH 435, 436, 437, 438).
Become a Registered Nurse
Before applying to our program, prospective Nursing students should review the student requirements outlined below. Undergraduate Nursing students are required to complete a National and Washington State background check, a set of immunizations & trainings, have an active RN License (or pending) in the State of Washington, and satisfy all grade and credit requirements.
BHLTH 4XX Health Coursework
BHLTH 4XX Health Coursework or Other
BHS 201 (Introduction to Public Health) – offered every quarter
BHS 201 &#8211; Introduction to Public Health
BHS 210 &#8211; Community Health Promotion & Communication
BHS 300 (Intro to Research Methods)* – offered Autumn, Winter, and Spring
BHS 300 &#8211; Principles of Health Research
BHS 302 &#8211; Social Dimensions of Health
BHS 305 (Healthcare Systems, Policy, and Advocacy) – offered Autumn, Winter, and Spring
BHS 305 &#8211; Introduction to Healthcare Policy & Systems
BHS 403 &#8211; Introduction to Epidemiology
BHS 496 &#8211; Fieldwork in Health
BNURS 360 Critical Thinking in Nursing
BNURS 420 Health Policy and the Organization of Healthcare
BNURS 421 Social Justice in Health
BNURS 422 Team Leadership & Care Coordination
BNURS 423 Ethical and Quality Nursing Care
BNURS 424 Population Based Health in Community Practice
BNURS 460 Translating Scholarly Knowledge to Nursing Practice
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358532
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career resources
Careers
Careers and credentials
Careers in Global Health
Class schedule
Click on the hyperlinks below to download the quarterly course information guides.
Close mobile menu
Community Partners
Commuter Services
Contact
Contact us
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core topics in global health
Course overview
Course petitions
Course petitions are reviewed by the Health Studies Curriculum Committee during the Autumn, Winter, and Spring quarters. Note: petitions are NOT reviewed during Summer quarters. All petitions must be submitted by the 6th week of the quarter in order to be reviewed and processed prior to the end of the quarter.
Course petitions are reviewed by the Health Studies Curriculum Committee during the Autumn, Winter, and Spring quarters. Petitions are NOT reviewed during Summer quarters. All petitions must be submitted by the 6th week of the quarter in order to be reviewed and processed prior to the end of the quarter.
Courses
Courses and program objectives
COVID-19
COVID-19 Fieldwork Policy
CPR training (valid American Heart Association BLS Healthcare Provider Certificate and/or eCard accepted)
Credit completion
Credit structure
Credits
Credits & grade requirements
Current site
Curriculum
Customize the Health Studies major with courses that resonate with your interest!
December 09 &#8211; December 30
Develop as public health leaders and health practitioners prepared to collaborate with communities and institutions to improve individual and population health.
Directory
Diversity statement
Do not purchase a background check, before the dates listed above.
Download a copy of the Health Studies advising worksheet linked below to learn more about your path to graduation:
Employment opportunities
Evaluate health research and health information for the application of ethical and evidence-based practice.
Excellence Fund
Expand Navigation
Facebook
Facilities
Faculty
Features and highlights
Fieldwork participation is contingent on your completion of the Health & Safety requirements. These requirements were created with our participating community partners. We recognize that these requirements may be stricter than individual healthcare employers. Non-compliant students will not be eligible to register for fieldwork until the requirements have been completed. If you are a current BSN student, please refer to your Nursing Student Canvas site for instructions, deadlines, and additional resources.
Fieldwork Participation Requirements
For questions about Admissions to the program, please call Riley Fern, Assistant Director of Admissions, at 425.352.3770, or email rffern@uw.edu .
For questions about Fieldwork Participation Requirements, call 425.352.5376 and ask to speak to the Health and Safety Coordinator, or email uwbnursingcompliance@uw.edu
General education
General Education or any deficiencies must be completed before a student may earn a bachelor’s degree.
Give
Global Health electives
Global Health Minor
Graduate
Graduating class
Health Education & Promotion Minor
Health Studies
Health Studies electives
Health Studies Major Checklist (2025-2026)
Health Studies Minor
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Hepatitis B
HIPAA Training (short online course to be completed through CastleBranch)
How to apply
Human Resources
Identify bio-social-ecological factors that influence health, health equity, and social justice at the individual and population levels.
If you are a current Health Studies student, make sure to check in with your Academic Advisor to review your advising worksheet together.
If you are interested in petitioning a course to satisfy a requirement in the Global Health minor, please connect with the Health Studies Academic Advisor Kaitlin Wolf ( wrightkr@uw.edu ) to learn more about the process.
If you are interested in petitioning a course to satisfy a requirement in the Health Education & Promotion minor, please connect with the Health Studies Academic Advisor Kaitlin Wolf ( wrightkr@uw.edu ) to learn more about the process.
If your background check raises concerns related to your participation in a nursing program, you will be contacted by a School representative.
Immunizations
In this section
Influenza (for the current flu season)
Info sessions &#038; events
Info sessions and contact
Information Literacy Competency Standards for Nursing
Information Technology
Instagram
Jobs
Learn more by visiting the Health Studies Elective webpage .
Learning goals
Learning objectives
Library
Licensure as a registered nurse in the state of Washington is required. Students who have not yet completed the NCLEX are admitted conditionally for two quarters. A student without an active RN license by the end of the second quarter will need to pause their studies. Students may return to the program, upon passage of the NCLEX.
LinkedIn
Maps & directions
Master of Nursing
Master of Science in Community Health & Social Justice
Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR)
Meet our students
Minor Curriculum
Mission statement
MN Capstone
More Links
MS Capstone
MyUW
NCLEX credits
Need assistance?
Newly admitted and returning undergraduate Nursing students are required to complete a National and Washington State background check. Current Nursing students are required to complete a Washington State-only background check annually if their initial background check expires while in the program. Every background check completed is valid for one calendar year from the date of purchase.
News
Nurse Scholars
Nursing Honors
Nursing students are required to complete the Health & Safety (immunizations and training) requirements, before registering for fieldwork (BNURS 424). Students must maintain the requirements throughout fieldwork enrollment.
Open mobile menu
Order
Outstanding scholars
Overview
Overview - School of Nursing & Health Studies
People
Populations, regions, & issues
Practice hours may extend into the evening hours.
Prerequisite for declaring the minor
Pricing information
Privacy
Program schedule
Promotion and Tenure Guidelines
Quarter of Admission
Quarterly courses
Quick Links
Registered Nurse licensure requirement
Required Core Courses:
Required Global Health core courses, 15 credits:
Requirement
Requirements
Requirements - School of Nursing & Health Studies
Resources
RN License (active and unencumbered)
RN to BSN
Rules Docket
School Leadership
School meetings
School of Nursing & Health Studies
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
September 11 &#8211; September 20
Skills & applications
Skip To Content
Social Media
Staff
Statistics
Student and Alumni Highlights
Student Requirements
Student Requirements - School of Nursing & Health Studies
Student Support Fund
Students are eligible to use up to 5 credits of electives for language study or for BHLTH 400: Study Abroad: Health Studies. Credit for other study abroad programs can be proposed through the course petition process (see below).
Students are required to complete a total of 25 credits (shown below).
Students are required to complete a total of 30-35 credits of coursework (shown below). Please note that some courses may have pre-requisites that students will need to include in their graduation plan.
Students may not have more than 10 credits of overlap between this minor and their chosen major.
Students must complete 180 credits to earn a BSN degree. The table below displays the program&#8217;s credit structure.
Students must earn a 2.0 or higher in all Nursing (BNURS) coursework. Students who earn less than 2.0 will be required to repeat the coursework.
Support our growth
Tacoma Campus
Teaching Track
Tenure Track
Terms
Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis (TDaP)
The core minor courses are typically offered once per academic year in the quarters mentioned above. Please check in with the Health Studies Academic Advisor Kaitlin Wolf ( wrightkr@uw.edu ) if you have questions regarding your minor class schedule.
The Health Studies faculty select electives each year, based on UW-Bothell&#8217;s catalog of courses. The approved electives are categorized into four areas of interest: 1) Health & Life Sciences, 2) Community Health Intervention & Practice, 3) Health & Society, and 4) Health Policy, Leadership, & Ethics.
The initial National and Washington State check costs $54.00.
The minor courses are typically offered once in an academic year. Please check in with the Health Studies Academic Advisor Kaitlin Wolf ( wrightkr@uw.edu ) if you have questions regarding your minor schedule.
The UW Bothell School of Nursing and Health Studies will have online access to your completed background check.
This course is not offered in a hybrid modality. You must be available to meet each week on your designated class day, between the hours of 8:00 am and 9:00 pm.
Time Range
Time Schedule
To help you prepare for future course registration, review the quarterly course offering spreadsheets below. These spreadsheets are useful tools in helping you to review courses related to the Health Studies major. Keep in mind that these spreadsheets are static, and so any changes to the UWB Time Schedule will not be reflected in these documents. For up-to-date course information, visit the UW Bothell Time Schedule .
To participate in the fieldwork experiences during the program, the students will need to have the following immunizations, training, and professional requirements completed.
To view video trailers for the specialized HEP minor courses, visit Padlet .
Total Credits Required
Total Credits:
Training & professional requirements
Transfer credits
Travel is required to and from the community partner site, and travel is not considered practice hours.
Tuberculosis (TB)
Tuition, fees and aid
Undergraduate
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Updated January 2025
Updated June 2023
Updated June 2025
Upper Division UW Electives (300-400 level)
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UWB Nursing coursework
uwbnhs@uw.edu
Varicella (Chicken Pox)
Visitors
We currently partner with CastleBranch . Background checks from other vendors, or that were completed for other schools through CastleBranch, are not acceptable.
While it is recommended that students take these courses in the order listed above, it is not a requirement.
Winter
Winter 2026 Course Information
Workday Login
You can expect to spend 6-7 hours in the field with the community partner, plus an additional 7-8 hours on assignments/class time per week.
You must complete the Health & Safety requirements to be eligible to register, for your fieldwork.
You will complete 65 practice hours in the field. Practice hours are mandatory and cannot be made up.
Your academic advisor will provide you with project overviews, and the site information on the Nursing Student Canvas site. The descriptions will include the community partner&#8217;s name, location, hours required if you are required to participate in evening hours, and any other pertinent information.
Your background check should be run according to the table below.
