Owner: uw-bothell-society-ethics-and-human-behavior
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/society-ethics-human-behavior
Title: Society, Ethics & Human Behavior - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
[Supplemental official source] requirements for admission
*Should be taken in the first quarter of IAS enrollment.
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. SEB Core Courses (SEB:CORE)
About IAS
Academic Advisor
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Admission to the School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences depends on your application type:
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Amoshaun Toft
Apply as a First-year student if any of the following statements describe you:
Apply As Undergraduate
B. Methods and Modes of Inquiry (SEB:METHODS)
BACHELOR OF ARTS
Back to top
BEDUC 220 Education & Society (3 credits)
BEDUC 456 Adolescents in School and Society
BEDUC 461 Education and Gender Inequality
BEDUC 475 Global Perspectives on Diversity and Citizenship Education
BEDUC 475 Global Perspectives on diversity and Citizenship Education (3 credits)
BEDUC 493 Environmental Education
BIS 181 Introduction to Sociology
BIS 193 Introduction to Philosophy
BIS 205 Technologies of Expression
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics (or equivalent)
BIS 215, BIS 312 or BIS 410 – min. 2.0 grade (5 credits)
BIS 216 Introduction to Cultural Studies
BIS 217 Introduction to Debate
BIS 218 Power of Maps
BIS 219 The Politics of Sex Education
BIS 220 Developmental Psychology
BIS 221 Gender and Sexuality
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality (formerly offered under BIS 316)
BIS 224 Introduction to Feminist Studies
BIS 225 Social Psychology
BIS 226 Foundations of U.S. Social Service
BIS 227 Rad Women in the Global South
BIS 233 Participatory Media Culture
BIS 238 Language, Identity, Culture and Power
BIS 240 Sustainable Practices
BIS 243 Introduction to Environmental Issues
BIS 245 Environmental Humanities
BIS 255 Critical Diversity Studies
BIS 256 Introduction to African American Studies
BIS 257 Introduction to Asian American Studies
BIS 258 Introduction to U.S. Latina/Latino Studies
BIS 265 Introduction to Comparative Ethnic Studies
BIS 270 Abnormal Psychology
BIS 275 Social Problems
BIS 279 Introduction to Law and Society
BIS 281 Contemporary Political Ideas and Ideologies
BIS 282 Globalization
BIS 300 Interdisciplinary Inquiry* – min. 2.0 grade (5 credits)
BIS 307 Environmental Justice
BIS 310 Women, Culture & Development
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research
BIS 316 Topics in Psychology
BIS 317 Language, Society and Cultural Knowledge
BIS 321 Human Rights and the Arts
BIS 325 Disability and Human Rights
BIS 326 Race, Space, and Segregation
BIS 327 History of U.S. Labor Institutions
BIS 330 Democratic Capitalism in the United States
BIS 331 Journalism and Media History
BIS 332 Global Digital Industries (formerly offered under BIS 313)
BIS 335 Human Rights in America
BIS 336 History of Mass Incarceration in the United States
BIS 338 Political Institutions and Processes
BIS 341 Topics in the Study of Culture
BIS 345 American Environmental Thought
BIS 349 Personality Psychology
BIS 353 Human Rights in Theory and Practice
BIS 356 Ethics and the Environment
BIS 357 Native American Religious and Philosophical Thought
BIS 359 Principles & Controversities of Sustainability
BIS 364 Realities and Representations of Adolescent Development
BIS 368 Women&#8217;s Lives in Context
BIS 369 Indigenous Psychology and Health
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World
BIS 374 Middle East Politics
BIS 380 Bioethics
BIS 384 Health, Medicine & Society
BIS 385 Art and Climate Change
BIS 394 Comparative Economic Development
BIS 403 Washington, D.C. Seminar on Human Rights
BIS 405 Environmental Education
BIS 406 Urban Planning and Geography
BIS 408 Critical Physical Geography
BIS 410 Topics in Qualitative Inquiry
BIS 415 Public Policy and the Law
BIS 416 U.S. Constitutional Law
BIS 419 Urban Politics and Policy
BIS 420 Colonizing History in Sub-Saharan Africa
BIS 422 Clinical Psychology
BIS 431 Issues in Sexual Politics and Cultures
BIS 433 Gender, Work and Family
BIS 436 Comparative Family Systems
BIS 438 Prevention and Promotion
BIS 441 Global Labor Markets
BIS 443 Educational Policy and the American Economy
BIS 445 Meanings and Realities of Inequality
BIS 447 Topics in Quantitative Inquiry
BIS 448 Social Policy
BIS 449 Advanced Topics in Psychology
BIS 450 Decolonizing Psychology
BIS 458 Energy, the Environment and Society
BIS 465 Performance, History, and Memory
BIS 466 Human Rights and Resistance
BIS 468 Human Rights and Sustainable Development
BIS 470 Art, Politics and Social Change
BIS 471 Women in Art
BIS 480 Study Abroad
BIS 489 Projects in Community Psychology
BIS 496 Community Service Project
BIS 497 Political Internship in State Government (5 credits max)
BIS 499 Portfolio Capstone – min. 2.5 grade (5 credits)
BIS/BEDUC 255 Critical Diversity Studies
BIS/BEDUC 328 Diversity, Leadership and Engagement
BISAES 305 Power, Dissent, and American Culture
BISAES 364 Public Memory and Dissent in American Culture
BISAES 367 Exploring American Culture: Race, Ethnicity and Immigration
BISAES 368 Sex, Love, Romance
BISAES 369 American Culture and Mass Media
BISCLA 318 Performance, Identity, Community and Everyday Life
BISGWS 301 Critical Gender & Sexuality Studies
BISGWS 302 Histories and Movements of Gender and Sexuality
BISGWS 303 Approaches to Feminist Inquiry
BISLEP 301 Law, Economics, and Public Policy
BISLEP 302 Policy Analysis
BISMCS 333 Media and Communication Studies
BISMCS 343 Media Production Workshop
BISMCS 471 Advanced Topics in Media and Communication
BISMCS 472 Advanced Media Production Workshop
BISPSY 337 Risk and Resilience
BISPSY 343 Community Psychology
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology
BISPSY 350 Intergroup Relations
BISSTA 304 Institutions and Social Change
BISSTA 331 The Family in U.S. Society
BISSTA 333 The Individual and Society
BISSTA 359 Ethics and Society
BISSTS 231 Genes, Genomes, and Heredity
BISSTS 232 Embryos, Genes, and Reproductive Technology
BISSTS 307 Science, Technology, and Society
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
C. SEB Courses (SEB)
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Planning
Careers
Charlie Collins
Christian Anderson
Close mobile menu
Colin Danby
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Courses
Courses in the Society, Ethics & Human Behavior major focus on providing opportunities for students to engage in empirical research and project-based learning experiences to examine individual and social action.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Culture and Society
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Current site
Current UW Bothell Students
Curriculum
D. Topics (SEB)
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
David Nixon
Degree requirements
Develop and employ evidence-based research strategies.
Develop creative and collaborative approaches for addressing social problems.
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Due to the limited number of course offerings, IAS does not admit new students for Summer quarter.
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Eric Stewart
Ethics, Philosophy and Social Theory
Events
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Faculty Coordinator
Fall Convergence
First-Year Student applicants
Frequently asked questions about IAS admissions
Funding
Gary Carpenter
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate students should refer to the graduate admissions page .
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How do social institutions and practices shape human experience? How do individuals contribute to social stability and change?
How to apply
How to apply - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Human Resources
I am a transfer student admitted to the IAS program, what is the next step? And when can I register?
I am interested in applying for Summer quarter. Is that a possibility?
I have earned college credits during my time in high school (ex: Running Start), and I plan to enter UW Bothell right after graduating from high school. Note: It does not matter how many college credits you have earned or will earn.
I have never attended college since leaving high school, regardless of my age or whether I ever graduated from high school.
I plan to enter UW Bothell in the summer or fall after graduating from high school.
I was dropped for low scholarship. How do I apply to be reinstated to IAS?
iasinfo@uw.edu
Identify how social position (e.g., race, sex/gender, class, sexual orientation, religion, age, nationality, disability) influence individual life outcomes.
If you are an IAS student and have not been enrolled for more than one quarter (excluding summer quarter), then you must re-apply using the returning student application. If you have questions about registration and graduation dates, please email the Academic Advising office to check your degree progress.
If you are currently enrolled at the University of Washington Bothell as a Pre-major student, or a student in another major, you can submit the IAS Major Declaration Form to enter into any IAS major. Some majors are open admission majors and have no specific prerequisite courses. Some majors are minimum requirement majors and will require prerequisite courses with at least a 2.0 grade. Check the major website for specific requirements.
If you are currently enrolled or have previously been enrolled at a community college or university, and are not currently taking courses from UW Bothell, please review the transfer student admissions page and admissions planning worksheets .
If you have questions about IAS majors, major requirements, admission process and application status, please email the Admissions advisors .
IMPORTANT NOTICE
In order for a newly admitted student to confirm admission via the Enrollment Confirmation System, they will need to create a UW NetID . Questions regarding creation of/set up of UW NetIDs can be forwarded to Admissions at uwbapply@uw.edu or 425.352.5000.
In this section
Individual Behavior
Information Technology
Institutions
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in exploring this major but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Internships
Janelle Silva
Jason Angeles
Jason Lambacher
Jobs
Kari Lerum
Keith Nitta
Lauren Lichty
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Loren Redwood
Major requirements
Majors
Maps & directions
Maryam Griffin
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Michael Mungin
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
MyUW
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
On this page: Major Description | Requirements | Learning Objectives | Faculty & Staff | Courses
Once ready to submit a declaration form follow this link to the IAS Major Declaration Form . Use this form to declare your first major or to add an additional major. Current UW Bothell students can email iasapply@uw.edu with any questions about declaring an IAS major.
Open mobile menu
Passion
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Please contact the SEB Faculty Coordinator if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about the Society, Ethics & Human Behavior major.
Please visit the UW Bothell Admission Office webpage to apply to the University of Washington Bothell as a First-year student.
Policy Studies (MA)
Practice
Prerequisites
Privacy
Profession
Prospective Students
Psychology
Quick Links
Recommended Preparation
Research Librarian
Research Opportunities
Returning Student applicants
Review the UW Tri-Campus Immunity Verification Requirement .
Rules Docket
S. Charusheela
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
SEB Core (5 credits)
SEB Courses (30 credits)
Sign up for a new student orientation .
Skip To Content
Social Policy and Social Justice
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior (SEB) addresses these questions through a critical examination of the perspectives and tools used to understand human behavior, social institutions, and social policies. SEB combines an exploration of the ethical dimensions of individual and social action with analyses across multiple disciplines including sociology, psychology, media and cultural studies, anthropology, ethics, and political philosophy. The SEB faculty is committed to providing students with opportunities to engage in empirical research and project-based learning experiences in and beyond the classroom.
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior major graduates are prepared to pursue professional careers or advanced study in a wide variety of fields, such as social work, education, public policy, law, media and cultural studies, and human resources.
Spring Festival
Staff
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students in the Society, Ethics & Human Behavior major are passionate about examining and understanding human behavior, social institutions, and social policies. Using this knowledge, students have the opportunity to assume more active leadership roles within their communities, families, and workplaces
Students who have been dropped for low scholarship can apply to be reinstated to IAS. Review the reinstatement process on the Petitions & Forms webpage to begin this process.
Study Abroad
Tacoma Campus
Terms
The information on this page is for students who are already admitted to the Society, Ethics & Human Behavior major, and are working towards the completion of their degree.
The Society, Ethics & Human Behavior curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives . Students taking courses and/or majoring in Society, Ethics & Human Behavior:
The Society, Ethics & Human Behavior major is no longer accepting new students.
Thesis Work
Time Schedule
To be able to register, you must confirm your enrollment, verify Immunization and attend a new student orientation. Then, you should be able to register the orientation. Newly admitted IAS students may register during Registration Period 2. Please visit the following pages for detailed information:
To confirm your enrollment, please visit the Online Enrollment Confirmation System (ECS).
Topics courses under the below course numbers may apply to the SEB major depending on the subject and title. Please see the Time Schedule notes to determine how they count toward the major.
TOTAL= 70 Credits
Transfer Student applicants
Undergraduate
Understand how social institutions work (e.g., family, criminal justice, religion, media, education, business).
Understand the connections between social institutions and social change.
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Wadiya Udell
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
While there are no official requirements beyond the requirements for admission into the School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences, students choosing this major will find it helpful to have completed college coursework in psychology, sociology, statistics, and philosophy.
Why Policy Studies?
Workday Login
You are considered a transfer applicant if you have completed (or will complete) college coursework from a regionally accredited college or university following the summer after high school graduation, but have not yet earned a bachelor’s degree.
You should apply as a Transfer Student only if you have earned college credits after the summer you graduated from high school.
