Owner: uw-bothell-nursing-rn-to-bsn
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/nhs/undergraduate/rn-bsn/overview
Title: Overview - School of Nursing & Health Studies

[Supplemental official source] Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Student Requirements
*BHS 300 requirement: BHS 300 can be substituted for an approved introductory research methods course. If you would like to take BHS 300 in an upcoming quarter, please note that BHS 210 (Community Health Promotion & Communication) is a pre-/co-requisite to BHS 300. If you would like to pursue a course substitution petition for BHS 300 or a pre-requisite exception request to enroll in BHS 300, please contact the Academic Advising Office (uwbadvis@uw.edu).
*Does not include a one-time $330.00 new student enrollment and orientation fee.
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-2 "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-3 "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-4 "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-5 "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
$ 17,183.00
$14,343.00
$14,385.00
$14,385.00*
$16.00
$300.00 &#8211; $500.00
$4,264.00
$4,306.00
$4,307.00*
$54.00
$57,498.00
$64.99
$64.99 &#8211; eLearning &#8211; Medical Document Manager
10 &#8211; 15 credits a quarter
10 credits of approved Global Health Minor Elective courses. Students must take at least 5 credits from two of the following three categories:
180
18115 Campus Way NE
202-887-6791.
2024-2025
2026, Fall Bothell Thursday
2026, Fall Shoreline Friday
2026, Winter Everett Tuesday
2027, Winter Everett Tuesday
4 quarters, one year to graduation
425.352.5000
425.352.5376
45
5
5 credits a quarter &#8211; one quarter 10 credits
5 times in person
8 quarters, two years to graduation
90
A Bachelor&#8217;s Degree requires 180 applicable credits. Students typically transfer in 90 lower division credits. Those who do not will need to complete the missing credits to reach the 180 required for the undergraduate degree.
About
Accessibility
Accreditation
Acknowledgment of Blood-Borne Pathogen Policy
Acknowledgment of Social Networking Policy
Additional information
Admissions
Admitted applicants can place an order for their background check through the CastleBranch portal .
Admitted applicants complete a background check which has a fee of $54.00 and must purchase a
Admitted students
Advising & info sessions
All students must pay the required fee for this service, waivers are not available.
All UW Bothell
Alumni
Alumni highlights
and relational leadership in nursing.
Annual Criminal Disclosure Form
Apply As Undergraduate
Apply leadership concepts, skills, and decision-making in the provision and oversight of nursing practice in a variety of settings.
Appraise, critically summarize and translate current evidence into nursing practice.
As a student in the program, you will complete a minimum of 100 practice hours. These practice hours are integrated into two courses, BNURS 460 (35 hours) Translating Scholarly Knowledge to Nursing Practice, and BNURS 424 (65 hours) Population-based Health in Community Practice.
Authorization for Release of Records Form
Autumn
B HLTH 201 (Introduction to Global Health) &#8211; offered Autumn
B HLTH 301 (Global Health Practice: Systems, Places, and People) &#8211; offered Winter
B HLTH 423 (Global Health: Critical Perspectives) &#8211; offered Spring
B HLTH 435 (Foundations & Principles of Health Education & Communication) – offered Autumn
B HLTH 436 (Intro to Management & Leadership for Health Professionals) – offered Spring
B HLTH 437 (Program Planning and Strategies for Health Promotion) – offered Winter
B HLTH 438 (Program Evaluation for Health Education & Promotion) – offered Spring
Background Check
Background Check (annual check)
Background check policy
Background check process
Background Check Renewal
Background checks that show evidence of a positive criminal history are considered on a case-by-case basis. For examples of offenses that would result in ineligibility, see the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services Disqualifying list of Crimes and Negative Actions .
Because BHS 201, 300, and 305 are a part of the core requirements within the Health Studies major, students who complete the BA in Health Studies degree will only need to add 20 credits (4 courses) to their graduation plan to finish this minor (BHLTH 435, 436, 437, 438).
Become a Registered Nurse
Before applying to our program, prospective Nursing students should review the student requirements outlined below. Undergraduate Nursing students are required to complete a National and Washington State background check, a set of immunizations & trainings, have an active RN License (or pending) in the State of Washington, and satisfy all grade and credit requirements.
BHLTH 4XX Health Coursework
BHLTH 4XX Health Coursework or Other
BHS 201 (Introduction to Public Health) – offered every quarter
BHS 300 (Intro to Research Methods)* – offered Autumn, Winter, and Spring
BHS 305 (Healthcare Systems, Policy, and Advocacy) – offered Autumn, Winter, and Spring
BNURS 360 Critical Thinking in Nursing
BNURS 420 Health Policy and the Organization of Healthcare
BNURS 421 Social Justice in Health
BNURS 422 Team Leadership & Care Coordination
BNURS 423 Ethical and Quality Nursing Care
BNURS 424 Community Health Nursing, has a $175.00 course fee.
BNURS 424 Population Based Health in Community Practice
BNURS 460 Translating Scholarly Knowledge to Nursing Practice
Bothell
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358532
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career resources
Careers
Careers and credentials
Careers in Global Health
Class schedule
Close mobile menu
Community Partners
Commuter Services
Contact
Contact us
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core topics in global health
Cost of attendance
Course Fees. If there is a course fee, it will be noted in the course description .
Course overview
Course petitions
Course petitions are reviewed by the Health Studies Curriculum Committee during the Autumn, Winter, and Spring quarters. Note: petitions are NOT reviewed during Summer quarters. All petitions must be submitted by the 6th week of the quarter in order to be reviewed and processed prior to the end of the quarter.
Course petitions are reviewed by the Health Studies Curriculum Committee during the Autumn, Winter, and Spring quarters. Petitions are NOT reviewed during Summer quarters. All petitions must be submitted by the 6th week of the quarter in order to be reviewed and processed prior to the end of the quarter.
Courses and program objectives
Coursework meets in a hybrid modality,
Coursework meets in hybrid modality,
COVID-19
COVID-19 Fieldwork Policy
CPR training (valid American Heart Association BLS Healthcare Provider Certificate and/or eCard accepted)
Credit completion
Credit structure
Credits
Credits & grade requirements
cultural and social issues in health care;
Current site
Curriculum
December 09 &#8211; December 30
Deliver and advocate for health equity through health promotion, care coordination and disease prevention strategies at the individual, family, community, and population levels.
Demonstrate an understanding of how health policy, economic, legal, political, and socio-cultural factors influence the delivery of and advocacy for equitable health care.
Demonstrate critical interrogation of positionality, recognition of implicit biases, as well as knowledge and application of anti-racism principles to promote health equity.
Demonstrate effective professional communication and collaboration within and across disciplines and with the public to optimize health outcomes.
Demonstrate integration of nursing scholarship, critical thinking, clinical decision-making, and psychomotor skills necessary for the delivery of competent, safe, evidence-based, holistic, compassionate and high-quality care to individuals, families, communities and populations across the lifespan.
Demonstrate value-based professional behaviors that integrate empathy, autonomy, integrity, social justice, and equity as well as respect for diversity and inclusion, human rights, and human dignity through cultivating partnerships with patients, families, and communities.
Directory
Diversity statement
Do not purchase a background check, before the dates listed above.
Download a copy of the in-person schedule with the course information.
Dr. Lillian Chen and Dr. Kosuke Niitsu Presenting
e-mail asknursing@uw.edu .
Employment opportunities
Entry
Estimated Cost of Books
Everett University Center
evidence-based practice and nursing inquiry;
Excellence Fund
Expand Navigation
Expense
Explore the cost of attendance and related university and program fees. If you are a Washington State or a UW employee, review the Tuition Exemption Program .
Facebook
Facilities
Faculty
Features and highlights
Fee
Fieldwork participation is contingent on your completion of the Health & Safety requirements. These requirements were created with our participating community partners. We recognize that these requirements may be stricter than individual healthcare employers. Non-compliant students will not be eligible to register for fieldwork until the requirements have been completed. If you are a current BSN student, please refer to your Nursing Student Canvas site for instructions, deadlines, and additional resources.
Fieldwork Participation Requirements
Fieldwork requires weekly in-person meetings
For questions about Admissions to the program, please call Riley Fern, Assistant Director of Admissions, at 425.352.3770, or email rffern@uw.edu .
For questions about Fieldwork Participation Requirements, call 425.352.5376 and ask to speak to the Health and Safety Coordinator, or email uwbnursingcompliance@uw.edu
For undocumented students living in Washington, please use the Washington Application for State Financial Aid (WASFA). International students in the U.S. with an F-1 visa or any other type of non-immigrant visa are not eligible for financial aid. The Nursing Scholarship handout has information on external scholarships available.
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) .
Fridays
Full-time schedule
General education
General Education or any deficiencies must be completed before a student may earn a bachelor’s degree.
Give
Global Health electives
Global Health Minor
Graduate
Graduating class
Health & Safety Package
Health and Safety Package fee of $64.99.
Health and Safety Requirements and Background Check Fee.
Health Education & Promotion Minor
Health Studies
Health Studies Minor
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Hepatitis B
HIPAA Training (short online course to be completed through CastleBranch)
How to apply
href="https://www.uwb.edu/nhs/wp-content/uploads/sites/9/2025/12/Fall-Bothell-Thursday-2026.docx"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/nhs/wp-content/uploads/sites/9/2025/12/Fall-Shoreline-Friday-2026.docx"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/nhs/wp-content/uploads/sites/9/2025/12/Winter-Everett-Tuesday-2026.docx"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/nhs/wp-content/uploads/sites/9/2025/12/Winter-Everett-Tuesday-2027.docx"
Human Resources
If you are interested in learning more about the RN to BSN pathway to a Nursing career, please visit Become a Registered Nurse .
If you are interested in petitioning a course to satisfy a requirement in the Global Health minor, please connect with the Health Studies Academic Advisor Kaitlin Wolf ( wrightkr@uw.edu ) to learn more about the process.
If you are interested in petitioning a course to satisfy a requirement in the Health Education & Promotion minor, please connect with the Health Studies Academic Advisor Kaitlin Wolf ( wrightkr@uw.edu ) to learn more about the process.
If your background check raises concerns related to your participation in a nursing program, you will be contacted by a School representative.
Immunizations
In this section
In-person
Influenza (for the current flu season)
Info sessions &#038; events
Info sessions and contact
Information Literacy Competency Standards for Nursing
Information Technology
Instagram
Integrate concepts and ways of knowing from the arts and sciences in promoting health and managing nursing care across the wellness-illness continuum.
January
Jobs
late Septembe
late September
Learning goals
legal and ethical issues in clinical practice;
Library
Licensure as a registered nurse in the state of Washington is required. Students who have not yet completed the NCLEX are admitted conditionally for two quarters. A student without an active RN license by the end of the second quarter will need to pause their studies. Students may return to the program, upon passage of the NCLEX.
LinkedIn
Location
Locations
Many funding opportunities are available for students. To be considered for all types of financial aid, U.S. students must submit the
Maps & directions
Master of Nursing
Master of Science in Community Health & Social Justice
Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR)
Meet our students
Meeting Day
Minor Curriculum
Mission statement
MN Capstone
More Links
MS Capstone
MyUW
NCLEX credits
Need assistance?
Newly admitted and returning undergraduate Nursing students are required to complete a National and Washington State background check. Current Nursing students are required to complete a Washington State-only background check annually if their initial background check expires while in the program. Every background check completed is valid for one calendar year from the date of purchase.
News
Non-Washington
Nurse Scholars
Nursing Honors
Nursing program fees
Nursing students are required to complete the Health & Safety (immunizations and training) requirements, before registering for fieldwork (BNURS 424). Students must maintain the requirements throughout fieldwork enrollment.
Open mobile menu
Opportunities in Seattle
Order
Outstanding scholars
Overview
Overview - School of Nursing & Health Studies
Part-time schedule
People
Philosophy of undergraduate education​
Populations, regions, & issues
Practice hours may extend into the evening hours.
Prerequisite for declaring the minor
Pricing information
Privacy
Program Expenses
Program schedule
Promotion and Tenure Guidelines
Qtr: Autumn
Qtr: Winter
Quarter of Admission
Quick Links
Registered Nurse licensure requirement
Required Global Health core courses, 15 credits:
Requirement
Requirements
Requirements - School of Nursing & Health Studies
Resources
Review the course descriptions to learn more.
RN License (active and unencumbered)
RN to BSN
Rules Docket
Schedule
Schedule with in-person dates
School Leadership
School meetings
School of Nursing & Health Studies
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
September 11 &#8211; September 20
Shoreline Community College
Skills & applications
Skip To Content
Social Media
Spring
Staff
State Resident
Student and Alumni Highlights
Student Requirements
Student Requirements - School of Nursing & Health Studies
Student Support Fund
Students are eligible to use up to 5 credits of electives for language study or for BHLTH 400: Study Abroad: Health Studies. Credit for other study abroad programs can be proposed through the course petition process (see below).
Students are required to complete a total of 25 credits (shown below).
Students are required to complete a total of 30-35 credits of coursework (shown below). Please note that some courses may have pre-requisites that students will need to include in their graduation plan.
Students may not have more than 10 credits of overlap between this minor and their chosen major.
Students must complete 180 credits to earn a BSN degree. The table below displays the program&#8217;s credit structure.
Students must earn a 2.0 or higher in all Nursing (BNURS) coursework. Students who earn less than 2.0 will be required to repeat the coursework.
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-300)"
Summer
Support our growth
Tacoma Campus
target="__blank" >
Teaching Track
Tenure Track
Terms
Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis (TDaP)
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing at the University of Washington Bothell is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education , 655 K Street NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001,
The core minor courses are typically offered once per academic year in the quarters mentioned above. Please check in with the Health Studies Academic Advisor Kaitlin Wolf ( wrightkr@uw.edu ) if you have questions regarding your minor class schedule.
The curriculum focuses on critical thinking and analysis, communication, and diversity. The baccalaureate degree enables a nurse to assume a leadership role and practice from an evidence base. Graduates collaborate with transdisciplinary teams in complex organizational systems to improve health care access, cost, and quality. The curriculum prepares graduates to competently work in partnership with individuals, families, communities, and populations to promote health locally and globally.
The curriculum is based on the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) Essentials of Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice and the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). One hundred practice hours are embedded in the curriculum. The program is focused on:
The initial National and Washington State check costs $54.00.
The members of the faculty believe that their teaching styles need to take into account the diverse nature of how students learn. We are a community of learners and scholars — a community that is created in collaboration with students.
The minor courses are typically offered once in an academic year. Please check in with the Health Studies Academic Advisor Kaitlin Wolf ( wrightkr@uw.edu ) if you have questions regarding your minor schedule.
The nursing courses meet one day every other week from approximately 8:00-5:30 pm. Two required Health coursework may meet online or as a hybrid, meeting in-person one (1) to three (3) times in a quarter from 5:45 &#8211; 9:00 pm.
The Nursing faculty believes that the purpose of university-based undergraduate healthcare education is to prepare healthcare professionals whose practice is informed by theory and research. The philosophy of the undergraduate curriculum is rooted in values of excellence, diversity, community, social justice, integrity, and creativity. Preparation for the various roles in practice requires knowledge of the arts, sciences, and humanities, together with content and processes specific to the discipline. An interdisciplinary emphasis engages students in a broad range of ideas and knowledge. Ultimately, professional nursing requires a commitment to scholarly inquiry, social equity, advocacy, and life-long learning.
The program also includes a Community Health fieldwork course which requires practice hours outside the classroom and travel within the region. The fieldwork course is not offered in a hybrid modality and students are required to be available every week (10 in-person/on-site sessions).
The Program is offered at Bothell, Shoreline, and Everett.
The RN to BSN at UW Bothell provides a pathway for students who have earned an Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) and want to advance their education and career by earning a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) . Our program requires students to complete a Nursing program at a community or technical college and earn an Associate Degree in Nursing, which allows the student to take the NCLEX- RN Licensure exam.
The RN to BSN program is designed to be completed in four (4) or eight (8) quarters. The four (4) quarter program is considered the full-time track and the eight (8) quarter program is the part-time track.
The University considers full-time enrollment , 10 – 18 credits a quarter.
The University of Washington Seattle offers a BSN and an Accelerated BSN program (for those holding a Bachelors degree in another field). If you would like to learn more about their programs, call 206-543-8736 or
The UW Bothell School of Nursing and Health Studies will have online access to your completed background check.
These figures are for informational purposes only for the most up-to-date figures, please refer to the tuition website .
This course is not offered in a hybrid modality. You must be available to meet each week on your designated class day, between the hours of 8:00 am and 9:00 pm.
Thursdays
Time Range
Time Schedule
To participate in the fieldwork experiences during the program, the students will need to have the following immunizations, training, and professional requirements completed.
To view video trailers for the specialized HEP minor courses, visit Padlet .
Total Credits Required
Total Credits:
Total Tuition & Fees
Training & professional requirements
Transfer credits
Translate principles of safety and quality improvement into the delivery of high-quality care to individuals, families, communities, and populations.
Travel is required to and from the community partner site, and travel is not considered practice hours.
Tuberculosis (TB)
Tuesdays
Tuition
Tuition, fees and aid
Undergraduate
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Updated June 2023
Updated June 2025
Utilize information, communication, and patient care technology tools to facilitate clinical decision-making and the delivery of safe, effective and high-quality nursing care.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UW Tri-Campus BSN goals
UWB Nursing coursework
uwbnhs@uw.edu
Varicella (Chicken Pox)
Visitors
Washington State Resident
We currently partner with CastleBranch . Background checks from other vendors, or that were completed for other schools through CastleBranch, are not acceptable.
While it is recommended that students take these courses in the order listed above, it is not a requirement.
Winter
Workday Login
You can expect to spend 6-7 hours in the field with the community partner, plus an additional 7-8 hours on assignments/class time per week.
You must complete the Health & Safety requirements to be eligible to register, for your fieldwork.
You will complete 65 practice hours in the field. Practice hours are mandatory and cannot be made up.
Your academic advisor will provide you with project overviews, and the site information on the Nursing Student Canvas site. The descriptions will include the community partner&#8217;s name, location, hours required if you are required to participate in evening hours, and any other pertinent information.
Your background check should be run according to the table below.
