Owner: uw-bothell-environmental-studies
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/environmental-studies
Title: Environmental Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

(1-2 credits x 4 quarters)
(5 credits, Autumn)
(5 credits, Early Fall)
(5 credits, Spring)
(5 credits, Winter)
(8 credits, Summer)
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
**Dates and deadlines are subject to change. Please check for updates at the beginning of each quarter.**
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
1 elective course = 5 credits
1 research methods course requirement = 5 credits
10 (Full time)
10 credits of Additional IAS Coursework
10 credits of Composition Coursework
11 CR (Full time)
12-month program/4 quarter
18115 Campus Way NE
20 credits of Environmental Studies Electives (ENST)
30 credits of Environmental Studies Core Requirements (ENST:CORE)
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
5 (Part time)
6 (Part time)
6 core courses (5 at 5 credits; 1 at 1-2 credit x 4 quarters) = 30 credits
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional Elective Options
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alternative (Part-time) Pathway
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Analyze and synthesize diverse forms of knowledge to bring a holistic understanding to bear on issues of environmental policy, management, and other social and cultural forms of human-environment interactions.
Applied in Autumn
Apply As Undergraduate
Are you interested in blending environmental science, policy, and cultural perspectives to better understand environmental challenges?
Autumn
Autumn Quarter
B BIO 330 Marine Biology
B BIO 335 Salmon and Society
B BIO 471 Plant Ecology
B CHEM 315 Quantitive Environmental Analysis
B CHEM 350 Atmospheric Chemistry and Air Pollution
B GIS 342 Geographic Information Systems (5 credits)
B HLTH 407 Climate Change and Health
B WRIT 133 or B WRIT 134 or ENGL 131 or equivalent (5 credits)
B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141 or equivalent (5 credits)
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BACK TO TOP
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
BEARTH 153 Intro to Geology
BEARTH 153 Introduction to Geology
BEARTH 154 Intro to Oceanography
BEARTH 154 Introduction to Oceanography
BEARTH 155 Intro to Climate Science
BEARTH 155 Introduction to Climate Science
BEARTH 201 Mapping the Earth System
BEARTH 202 Modeling Global Systems
BEARTH 310 Fundamentals of Weather and Climate
BEARTH 317 Soils in the Environment
BEARTH 318 Hydrogeology
BEARTH 320 Impacts of Climate Change
BEARTH 321 Geomorphology
BEARTH 341 Natural Hazards and Human Disasters (change to 200 level)
BES 301 Science Methods & Practice OR BST 301 Scientific Writing (5 Credits)
BES 303 Environmental Monitoring Practicum
BES 311 Environmental Chemistry
BES 312 Ecology
BES 316 Ecological Methods
BES 330 Limnology
BES 397 Special Topics in Environmental Science
BES 415 Advanced Environmental Measurement Laboratory
BES 440 Remote Sensing of the Environment
BES 460 Water Quality
BES 486 Watershed Ecology and Management
BES 488 Wetland Ecology
BES 489 Pacific Northwest Ecosystems
BES 491 Undergraduate Research in ES
BES 492 Capstone Research in ES I
BES 493 Capstone Research in ES II
BES 497 Special Topics in ES
BIS 141 Natural History and Environmental Science
BIS 180 Introduction to Human Geography
BIS 185 Art and Climate Change
BIS 242 Environmental Geography (AUT quarter) OR BIS 243 Intro to Environmental Issues (WIN quarter) (5 credits)
BIS 243 Introduction to Environmental Issues
BIS 245 Environment & Humanities (5 credits) (WIN quarter)
BIS 246 Introduction to Sustainability
BIS 252 Politics of Science
BIS 304 Political Economy and the Environment
BIS 306 Marine Diversity and Conservation
BIS 307 Environmental Justice (5 credits) (AUT quarter)
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research
BIS 319 Public Arts and Ecological Restoration
BIS 338 Political Institutions and Processes
BIS 340 Approaches to Cultural Research
BIS 343 Geographic Visualization
BIS 344 Intermediate GIS
BIS 346 Topics in Environmental Policy
BIS 356 Ethics and the Environment (5 credits) (AUT or SPR quarter) OR BIS 386 Climate Change Adaptation (5 credits) (WIN or SPR quarter)
BIS 359 Principles & Controversies of Sustainability
BIS 360 Pollinator Diversity and Conservation
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World
BIS 390 Ecology and Environment
BIS 392 Water & Sustainability
BIS 405 Environmental Education
BIS 406 Urban Planning and Geography
BIS 408 Critical Physical Geography
BIS 415 Public Policy and Law
BIS 442 Advanced Geographic Information Systems
BIS 456 Climate Anxiety, Grief and Reliance
BIS 458 Energy, Environment and Society
BIS 459 Conservation & Sustainable Development
BISGST 303 History and Globalization
BISSTS 307 Science, Technology, & Society
BISSTS 355 History of Science and Technology
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1) suggested
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (2)
BPOLST 509 Proseminar (1)
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis (5)
BPOLST 513 Practicum
BPOLST 513 Practicum (5)
BPOLST 514 Management & Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project (8)
BPOLST 594 Research Design (5)
BPOLST 594 Research Design is the default means of satisfying the Research Methods requirement. (You may petition for other options, including BPOLST 520 Internship, or BPOLST 598 Directed Research in Advanced Quantitative Methods). The course’s goal is to develop students’ own research questions and explore appropriate research methods for addressing these questions. Readings and discussion provide grounding in research designs, including experimental, longitudinal, cross-sectional, case-study, and participatory action research. Special attention will be devoted to planning and developing student capstone projects.
BST 445 Political Economy of Energy
BST 446 Sustainable Energy
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone requirements = 8 credits
Career Planning
Career Resources
Careers
Click on the link for the form you wish to access
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Contacts
Copy the URL for this page into the incognito window
Core Courses
Course/Requirement
Courses
Courses in the Environmental Studies major allow students to collect data, perform research, and use geospatial technology to analyze how individuals, organizations, and societies add to the complex challenges facing the sustainability of Earth’s resources.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Credits per Quarter
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Current UW Bothell students in good academic standing (2.0 cumulative GPA) can declare this major using the online Major Declaration Form .
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Degree Completion
Degree Requirements
Develop a broad and interdisciplinary understanding of Earth’s natural and cultural systems at both bioregional and global scales.
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Environmental Justice or Art & Climate Change sound exciting to you?
Early Fall
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Elective Credits
Engage multiple ways of knowing to develop interdisciplinary skills and approaches to environmental practice, and strengthen collective and individual leadership toward an environmental career.
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Environmental Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Environmental Studies Approved Elective List
Environmental Studies students are passionate about understanding how humans interact with the natural world. Instead of spending more time on lab science work, they take classes in policy, law, philosophy, cultural studies, and economics.
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explore how dominant narratives have shaped how environmental efforts are approached today, and how integration of different ways of knowing and doing can reconstruct environmental goals to be responsive to environmental justice, environmental integrity, and the rights of all species.
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Fall Convergence
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For security reasons, the submission forms linked in the document require you to log in with a UW NetID. If you receive an error message, or are unable to access the form, please try the following:
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Full-time/Part-time
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Graduates in the Environmental Studies major communicate about urgent environmental issues facing our communities and help solve complex global problems in career roles such as education, advocacy, and consulting.
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
Human Resources
iasgrad@uw.edu
iasinfo@uw.edu
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Incoming students can apply directly into the major when applying for admission to UW Bothell.
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practices & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 70 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in exploring this major, but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
It is founded on the belief that students attain their highest levels of understanding and proficiency when combining practice with theory and connecting classroom and real life environments. Through class seminars, small group collaboration, field research, a practicum, and a capstone project, students acquire the depth of knowledge, practical experiences, and professional skills that position them for success in the world of policy.
Jennifer Cabarrus
Jobs
Lab Manager
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to apply
Learn more about how to conduct an Internship
Learn more about how to enroll in Directed Research
Learn more about how to participate in Study Abroad program
Learn more about the capstone research process
Learn to collaborate in creatively addressing complex real-world environmental problems through cross-sectoral and interdisciplinary approaches.
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Major Requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
Most students opt to complete the program in 12 months. But for those whose other responsibilities do not allow for full-time enrollment, there is an alternative, part-time pathway, as follows:
MyUW
N/A
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: Courses in this major are offered primarily during daytime hours.
Note: See all IAS policies and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
On this page: Overview | Curriculum | Dates & Deadlines | Core Courses | Elective Credits | Other Options
Open an incognito window ( What is incognito mode or private browsing, and how to do it)
Open mobile menu
Other options
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
Penelope Wood
People
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Please contact the Environmental Studies Faculty Coordinator if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about the Environmental Studies major.
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership etc.
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership, etc.
Policy Studies (MA)
Policy Studies streamlined its curriculum to offer an accelerated pathway, enabling students to obtain their master’s degree in just 12 months.
Policy Studies students enter the program as a cohort in autumn of each year. Core courses are offered as seminars that meet once a week. These seminars are combined with on-line and/or individual and small group discussions, workshops, case studies and analytical projects as well as field experiences, service learning and applied research opportunities. The course of study culminates with a Capstone Project.
PRACTICE
Practicum courses provide students with the opportunity to explore particular social and policy issues by connecting with community stakeholders that influence and are affected by those issues. The goal is to build relationships with communities with whom students are interested in working and/or conducting research. This course will advance around the three themes of exploration, connection, and relationship building. Students explore their community and political settings by conducting informal research into these contexts. Students will connect with community stakeholders through direct service, informational interviews, events, and/or other means. Currently in development and review for 2017-2018.
Prerequisites
Privacy
PROFESSION
Program Dates & Deadlines
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
PURPOSE
Quarter
Quick Links
Recommended preparation
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research Librarian
Research Methods Requirement (5): BPOLST 594 Research Design (default): BPOLST 520 Internship or BPOLST 598 Directed Research by petition to capstone advisor
Research Methods Requirement/ BPOLST 594 Research Design
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See a description of current courses being offered.
See full approved course list below for course options
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
Still having difficulties? Contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000.
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Students wishing to receive elective credit for courses taken in other departments (either at UW Bothell or UW Seattle) must fill out a Petition for Outside Coursework and obtain faculty approval.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
Summer
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
The Capstone is an independent research project intended to be the culmination of the degree program. Building on the networking and research done in the Practicum as well as the planning and design work from the previous quarter, students will work with a faculty advisor to complete and write up their own research. Depending on the nature of the research question and the kind of partners or collaborators students engage, the capstone manuscript may take different formats. In general, capstone manuscripts will include a description of the policy problem, literature review, description of research methods, review of research findings, and conclusions or implications.
The Environmental Studies curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives . Students taking courses in Environmental Studies:
The Environmental Studies major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to examine how organizations and societies interact with natural environments. Academic and other learning experiences enhance students’ ability for project management and increases their skills in critical thinking, data analysis, research, communication, and decision-making.
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The following degree requirements are required as of Autumn 2024 quarter. Students who entered the Environmental Studies (ENST) major prior to Autumn 2024 have different requirements. Please see your Academic Advisor for questions and academic planning.
The MA in Policy Studies Dates & Deadlines are available to students, staff, and faculty by logging in the MAPS Degree Resources Canvas . Signing in with your NetID is required.
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The Policy Studies curriculum reflects an innovative, integrated approach to the study of contemporary policy issues in local and global contexts. It prepares students for policy-related analyst and leadership careers in public, private and non-profit organizations.
The primary goal of this class is to help students develop the statistical skills needed to be independent policy researchers. It lays the basic foundation for both academic and practical investigation. This course begins your training by surveying important aspects of the conduct of research into social scientific questions. By the end of the quarter, you will be able to apply appropriate univariate, bivariate, and multivariate statistical techniques to answering research questions; understand the principles and logic behind statistical methods deployed in the course; utilize SPSS to execute a data analysis project and draw statistical inferences; and apply statistical knowledge to understand policy case studies.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
There are many options available to students when it comes to choosing electives. The first place to look is at the BPOLST elective offerings, located for the year on the current courses page. Students can also take graduate level coursework in other degrees, or 400-level classes that are relevant to their field of study. To find other UWB courses, please refer to the UWB Time Schedule . To find courses on the Seattle campus, please refer to the UWS Time Schedule .
There are no formal prerequisites for the Environmental Studies major.
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
This course focuses on political and institutional aspects of public policy processes. It examines rationales for public policy and the processes in which they are articulated and negotiated; formulation of policies; selection of policy instruments; policy implementation; and policy analysis. The course pays particular attention to methods and approaches commonly used to analyze policy at the formation and implementation stages of policy-making, including cost-benefit analysis, trend analysis, and deliberative approaches.
This course provides an overview of the major literatures in organization theory and management. Assignments focus on developing managerial skills such as: supervising subordinates, building a team, mapping stakeholders, problem-spotting, and evaluating existing programs. Special attention will be devoted to methods and approaches to program evaluation, including logic models, participatory approaches, and rational/quantitative approaches.
This four-course sequence of quarterly one-credit courses develops students’ professional competence in a number of areas essential to the field of policy work. Workshops deepen skills in applied policy ethics, conflict resolution, policy writing and public speaking, and oral presentation of policy information. Students also network with alumni, professionals active in the field, and other faculty in the program in order to structure their MAPS experience and explore policy perspectives from multiple points of view.
This two-week intensive course at the end of September prepares students for BPOLST 502 and more advanced statistics in the future, by providing a survey of college-level mathematical and foundational statistical methods. Topics to be covered include statistical notation, population, sampling distribution and standard normal distributions, graphs and tables, inferential statistics, descriptive statistics and correlations.
Time Schedule
Tips for exploring graduate school
TOTAL = 70 Credits
Total required credits= 48
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
Useful preparation for this major includes formal and informal training in environmental courses and field work.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Winter
Winter Quarter
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
You should be prompted to sign into Microsoft. Please use your UW NetID to login
