Owner: uw-bothell-business-administration:pathway:entrepreneurship-concentration
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/business/undergraduate/bachelor-of-business-administration/entrepreneurship
Title: Entrepreneurship Concentration - School of Business

[Supplemental official source] Accounting Option
[Supplemental official source] Finance Option and Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
**Accounting Option students who add a Finance Concentration cannot count the following courses as Accounting Option electives:
*Accounting Option students who add a Finance Concentration cannot use the following courses as part of their Finance Concentration (i.e., no double-counting of courses):
&#124;
10 credits &#8211; Complete two courses from this list:
90 Credits
About
Accounting certification preparation
Accounting Option
Admissions
After completing the two-year Accounting Option, students are eligible to take the Certified Management Accountant (CMA) exam . Students who wish to become a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) , however, should plan on spending three years in the program. To take the CPA exam, a student needs a minimum of 225 quarter hours or five years of college (a master degree is not required).
B BUS 361 – Intermediate Accounting I
B BUS 402 Managing Work Teams
B BUS 427 Entrepreneurial Marketing (320)
B BUS 443 Entrepreneurship Seminar
B BUS 444 Product Development Lab
B BUS 456 Entrepreneurial Finance (350)
B BUS 464 New Product Marketing (320)
B BUS 471 Entrepreneurial Management
B BUS 476 New Technology & Future Markets (300, 320, 350)
B BUS 478 Venture Startup, Management & Growth
Bachelor in Business Administration
Bachelor in Economics
Bachelor of Business Administration
BBUS 300 – Organizational Behavior, Ethics and Inclusivity, Diversity Designated Course
BBUS 307 – Business Writing, Writing Designated Course
BBUS 310 – Managerial Economics (BMATH 144, or STMATH 124, or MATH 112)
BBUS 310 – Managerial Economics (BMATH 144, STMATH 124, or MATH 112)
BBUS 320 – Marketing Management
BBUS 340 – Operations & Project Management
BBUS 350 – Business Finance (310)
BBUS 361 – Intermediate Accounting I
BBUS 373 – Cost Accounting
BBUS 451 – Financial Policy & Planning
BBUS 451 – Financial Policy and Practice (350)
BBUS 452 – Financial Modeling (350)
BBUS 453 – Financial Institutions & Markets
BBUS 453 – Financial Institutions and Markets (350)
BBUS 454 – Investments
BBUS 454 – Investments (350)
BBUS 470 – Business Policy & Strategic Management
BBUS 480 – Global Environment of Business
Before you can register for the capstone courses, you must complete all core courses and meet with your advisor to file a graduation application .
Capstone Courses
Choose two courses (10 credits) from the following:
Concentration Courses
Core Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Course Numbers & Names
Course Type
Curriculum
Direct First-Year Admit (DFA)
Entrepreneurship Concentration
Entrepreneurship curriculum
Expand Navigation
Finance Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Finance Option and Concentration
Graduate
How to apply
In addition to public accounting, the Accounting Option will thoroughly prepare students for careers in private, government and non-profit accounting. The curriculum is designed to enable graduates to fill a number of corporate positions such as internal auditor, managerial accountant and tax accountant. Graduates will also be prepared to serve in government positions such as tax examiner, budget analyst and government auditor. You can get more information from the Washington Society of Certified Public Accountants .
In this section
Leadership & Strategic Innovation Option
Leadership History
Management Concentration
Management Information Systems (MIS) Concentration
Marketing Option and Concentration
Master of Business Administration
Minor in Actuarial Science
Minor in Business Administration
Minor in Economics
Minor in Retail Management
News
Option Courses
PharmD-MBA Program
Policies & Petitions
Prerequisite Courses
Prerequisites
Required Capstone Courses
Required Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Required Electives
Required Entrepreneurship Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Requirements to declare the Option or the Concentration
Retail Management Concentration
School of Business
Students in the Entrepreneurship concentration must complete the following courses for graduation.
Students in the Finance Option or Concentration must complete the courses below to be eligible for graduation.
Students wanting to declare the Finance Option are required to have taken B BUS 350 with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Students may apply for a waiver of this minimum GPA requirement if they earn a minimum GPA of 3.0 across all other Finance Option required courses. Students must have completed BBUS 350 – Business Finance, to declare the Finance concentration.
Supply Chain Management Option
Technology & Innovation Management (TIM) Concentration
The Entrepreneurship Concentration prepares students to start their own companies, whether they be tech startups, local shops, or professional services. Students learn by developing actual startup ideas on real startup teams. They spot new business opportunities and create value propositions, which align products or services with customer needs. And they develop strategies and business models for their startups. The concentration prepares students (if interested) to compete in UW&#8217;s Dempsey Startup Competition or to apply to the Buerk Accelerator Program .
The Finance Option allows students acquire knowledge about how firms make financial decisions and how these decisions affect individual organizations and society as a whole. Students also learn how firms acquire and allocate funds; how financial markets operate and the role these markets play in economic welfare. The study of finance includes the use of models to develop analytical approaches to problems. Students are trained to take positions in financial institutions such as commercial and investment banks, in finance departments of major corporations or with consulting firms.
Total Credits
Tuition & Financial Aid
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
Vision, Mission & Values
Why study Entrepreneurship?
Why study finance?
