Owner: uw-bothell-interdisciplinary-studies-individualized-study
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/ias-degree-portfolio
Title: IAS Degree Portfolio - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

(1-2 credits x 4 quarters)
(5 credits, Autumn)
(5 credits, Early Fall)
(5 credits, Spring)
(5 credits, Winter)
(8 credits, Summer)
[Page 409] IN THIS SECTION Graduate study policies - Catalog Bothell General Catalog Home  Graduate study policies On this page: Graduate program coordinator Graduate courses Residence Enrollment status Final quarter registration Continuous enrollment and official on-leave requirement Readmission Graduate program coordinator The graduate student’s initial work at the University is guided by the graduate program coordinator in his or her field. The coordinator must be a senior tenured member of the graduate faculty and is the official representative of the academic unit that offers the graduate degree program. The graduate program coordinator maintains familiarity with policies and procedures of the Graduate School and provides overall coordination of graduate activities within the unit. ↑ Back to top https://www.uwb.edu/catalog/graduate-study-policies[10/16/2023 3:55:55 PM]
[Page 410] Graduate study policies - Catalog Graduate courses Graduate courses are intended for, and ordinarily restricted to, either students enrolled in the Graduate School or graduate non-matriculated students, and are given numbers from 500 to 800. Some courses at the 300 and 400 levels are open to both graduates and upper-division undergraduates. Such courses, when acceptable to the supervisory committee and the Graduate School, may be part of the graduate program. The Graduate School accepts credit in approved 300-level courses for the minor or supporting fields only. Courses at the 300 level are not included in the calculation of grade-point average (GPA) and will not apply toward the minimum Graduate School requirement of 18 graded credits for the master’s or doctoral degree. Approved 400-level courses are accepted as part of the major as well as minor or supporting fields. Courses numbered 498, and entitled Special Topics and Special Projects, normally are not applicable to a graduate degree program if addressed primarily to introductory content and undergraduate students. Undergraduate research (499) is not accepted as part of the graduate program. Graduate School Memorandum No. 36 offers additional information on graduate courses. With the exception of Summer, students are limited to a maximum ten credits per quarter of any combination of courses numbered 600, 700, or 800. ↑ Back to top Residence The residence requirement for a master’s degree is one year (three full quarters). Students registered for fewer than ten credits per quarter may add part-time quarters together to achieve the equivalent of one full-time quarter (ten or more credits) to be applied toward fulfilling residence requirements. However, excess credits beyond ten may not be subtracted from one quarter and added to another. Once a student is admitted to a graduate degree program, a full quarter of residence is granted for any quarter in which at least ten credits in graduate course, research, thesis, internship, or dissertation work are satisfactorily completed. Only courses numbered 400, 500, 600, 700, and 800 can be applied to residence or course credit in the major field for advanced degrees (please see Graduate Courses earlier in this section regarding courses numbered 498 and 499). Courses numbered 300 are not applicable to residence or course credit toward advanced degrees, except when applied by permission of the graduate program coordinator or supervisory committee toward the graduate minor or supporting courses. Courses numbered below 300 are not applicable to residence or course credit for advanced degrees. https://www.uwb.edu/catalog/graduate-study-policies[10/16/2023 3:55:55 PM]
[Page 411] Graduate study policies - Catalog Enrollment status Final quarter registration A student must maintain registration as a full- or part-time graduate student at the University for the quarter in which the master’s degree is conferred. A student who does not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter must be registered for the following quarter. ↑ Back to top Continuous enrollment & official on-leave requirement To maintain graduate status, a student must be enrolled at least on a part-time or on-leave basis from the time of first enrollment in the Graduate School until completion of all requirements for the graduate degree. This includes applying for the master’s degree, the passing of the master’s final examination, or final examinations, the filing of the thesis or dissertation, and the receiving of the degree. Summer Quarter on-leave enrollment is automatic for all graduate students who were either registered or on- leave the prior Spring Quarter. Failure to maintain continuous enrollment constitutes evidence that the student has resigned from the Graduate School. A student’s petition for on-leave status must be approved by the department graduate program coordinator or alternate no later than the fifth day of the quarter. To be eligible for on-leave status, the student must have registered for and completed at least one quarter in the UW Graduate School and have been registered or on-leave for the immediate previous quarter (excepting Summer). An on-leave student is entitled to use the University Libraries and to sit for foreign language competence examinations, but is not entitled to any other University privileges of a regularly enrolled and registered full- or part-time student. The student pays a nonrefundable fee to obtain on-leave student status and can only go on leave for one quarter at a time. Please note: Periods spent on-leave are included as part of the maximum time periods allowed for completion of a graduate degree. ↑ Back to top Readmission A student previously registered in the Graduate School who has failed to maintain graduate student status, but who wishes to resume studies, must file an application online by the published closing dates, for admission to the Graduate School. If the student is readmitted, registration will occur during the https://www.uwb.edu/catalog/graduate-study-policies[10/16/2023 3:55:55 PM]
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
[Supplemental official source] UW Bothell 2023-2024 general catalog - Interdisciplinary Studies
**Dates and deadlines are subject to change. Please check for updates at the beginning of each quarter.**
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
1 elective course = 5 credits
1 research methods course requirement = 5 credits
10 (Full time)
11 CR (Full time)
12-month program/4 quarter
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
5 (Part time)
6 (Part time)
6 core courses (5 at 5 credits; 1 at 1-2 credit x 4 quarters) = 30 credits
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional Elective Options
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All of the undergraduate degrees housed in IAS conclude with BIS 499 Portfolio Capstone . Taken within the student&#8217;s final two quarters, this 5-credit course allows students to complete their undergraduate Capstone Portfolio. These portfolios include framing essays and evidence of learning based in work completed during the degree. The portfolio provides the capstone to students&#8217; learning in IAS, while also preparing them to communicate persuasively about their learning and abilities with future audiences of potential employers, friends and family, or graduate school admissions committees.
All students in Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences build a learning and professional portfolio as part of the core curriculum. The portfolio process helps students to become self-directed and self-motivated learners during their time at UW Bothell. It encourages students to reflect on what they have learned and done, the connections they have made among courses and assignments, and how their academic accomplishments can contribute to their future goals. IAS portfolios are built through Google Sites or a web platform of their choice.
All UW Bothell
Alternative (Part-time) Pathway
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Applied in Autumn
Apply As Undergraduate
Autumn
Autumn Quarter
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1) suggested
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (2)
BPOLST 509 Proseminar (1)
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis (5)
BPOLST 513 Practicum
BPOLST 513 Practicum (5)
BPOLST 514 Management & Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project (8)
BPOLST 594 Research Design (5)
BPOLST 594 Research Design is the default means of satisfying the Research Methods requirement. (You may petition for other options, including BPOLST 520 Internship, or BPOLST 598 Directed Research in Advanced Quantitative Methods). The course’s goal is to develop students’ own research questions and explore appropriate research methods for addressing these questions. Readings and discussion provide grounding in research designs, including experimental, longitudinal, cross-sectional, case-study, and participatory action research. Special attention will be devoted to planning and developing student capstone projects.
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone requirements = 8 credits
Career Planning
Careers
Click on the link for the form you wish to access
Close mobile menu
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact the Writing & Communication Center (WaCC) tutors for assistance.
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Copy the URL for this page into the incognito window
Core Courses
Course/Requirement
Courses
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Credit Based Learning
Credits per Quarter
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Degree Completion
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
E-Portfolio Support
Early Fall
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Elective Credits
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Fall Convergence
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For security reasons, the submission forms linked in the document require you to log in with a UW NetID. If you receive an error message, or are unable to access the form, please try the following:
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Full-time/Part-time
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
General Overview
Get help from a student tutor in the Open Learning Lab in UW2-140.
Getting Started
Give
Global Initiatives
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
Human Resources
IAS Capstone Portfolios vary since they reflect the accomplishments and ambitions of different students. You will find below a few examples of recent degree portfolios. You may need to log in with UW ID to view these samples.
IAS Degree Portfolio
IAS Degree Portfolio - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
IAS Portfolio Examples
IAS Portfolio Process
IAS Portfolios will be completed by students in their last quarters at UW Bothell in the BIS 499 Portfolio Capstone course
iasgrad@uw.edu
iasinfo@uw.edu
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
Introduction to ePortfolios
It is founded on the belief that students attain their highest levels of understanding and proficiency when combining practice with theory and connecting classroom and real life environments. Through class seminars, small group collaboration, field research, a practicum, and a capstone project, students acquire the depth of knowledge, practical experiences, and professional skills that position them for success in the world of policy.
Jisoo Choi , 2020, SEB: Choi’s portfolio highlights how their academic studies have shaped their perspective on themselves and taught them to value the perspectives of others.
Jobs
Julia Schoen , 2019, GWSS/MCS: In this portfolio Schoen reflects on how double majoring allowed them to focus on concepts of visual communication, and social and political justice as well as the importance of authentic representation.
Julia Vogel , 2020, GST/CP: In a letter addressed to their future self, Vogel examines the main skills that they gained while studying in IAS.
Katie Medalia , 2021, MCS: Medalia&#8217;s capstone presentation and essay reflect back on their academic journey through the Media & Communications Studies major and how the main learning objectives of IAS will continue to guide them as they continue their professional career.
Korey Hawkins , 2019, Community Psychology: Using a google site, Hawkins shares how his academic work has helped gain expertise in the Community Psychology major area and apply the knowledge & skills into solving the real world problems.
Krisna Bour , 2020, IA: Finding creativity in varying forms and unexpected places is a topic that Bour explores in their reflection on their love of art and time at UWB.
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to conduct an Internship
Learn more about how to enroll in Directed Research
Learn more about how to participate in Study Abroad program
Learn more about the capstone research process
Learning Objectives
Library
Long In Fong , 2019, Media & Communication Studies: With an archive of media work via the Adobe Spark, Fong illustrates how his passion and skills in photography and video production advanced during his time at IAS.
Majors
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
Most students opt to complete the program in 12 months. But for those whose other responsibilities do not allow for full-time enrollment, there is an alternative, part-time pathway, as follows:
MyUW
N/A
Need help designing your E-Portfolio?
Need technical support in creating your E-Portfolio?
News
Non-textual assignments can be difficult to retain, but they can be extremely valuable. Students may be able to have Campus Media videotape their performance and request a copy. Other students may take digital photos of a group poster or installation. Assignments on web discussion boards and other web-based media should be archived before the course ends.
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: Students admitted to an IAS degree program prior to Autumn 2010 may complete BES 464, BIS 403, BIS 490, or BIS 492 in the place of BIS 499 Portfolio Capstone. If you choose this option, you will create your IAS Capstone Portfolio in that course.
Office of Connected Learning (CELR)
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
On this page: Overview | Curriculum | Dates & Deadlines | Core Courses | Elective Credits | Other Options
Open an incognito window ( What is incognito mode or private browsing, and how to do it)
Open mobile menu
Other options
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership etc.
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership, etc.
Policy Studies (MA)
Policy Studies streamlined its curriculum to offer an accelerated pathway, enabling students to obtain their master’s degree in just 12 months.
Policy Studies students enter the program as a cohort in autumn of each year. Core courses are offered as seminars that meet once a week. These seminars are combined with on-line and/or individual and small group discussions, workshops, case studies and analytical projects as well as field experiences, service learning and applied research opportunities. The course of study culminates with a Capstone Project.
Practicum courses provide students with the opportunity to explore particular social and policy issues by connecting with community stakeholders that influence and are affected by those issues. The goal is to build relationships with communities with whom students are interested in working and/or conducting research. This course will advance around the three themes of exploration, connection, and relationship building. Students explore their community and political settings by conducting informal research into these contexts. Students will connect with community stakeholders through direct service, informational interviews, events, and/or other means. Currently in development and review for 2017-2018.
Privacy
Program Dates & Deadlines
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
Quarter
Quarterly Student Self-Assessment (QSSA) *Word Document
Quick Links
Related Links
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research Methods Requirement (5): BPOLST 594 Research Design (default): BPOLST 520 Internship or BPOLST 598 Directed Research by petition to capstone advisor
Research Methods Requirement/ BPOLST 594 Research Design
Research Opportunities
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See a description of current courses being offered.
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Sovannarith Khem , 2019, IA: This portfolio showcases Khem’s passion for visual communication through digital media with a focus on minority representation.
Spring
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
Still having difficulties? Contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000.
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students are introduced to the IAS Portfolio in BIS 300 Interdisciplinary Inquiry
Students have the opportunity to develop their portfolios further in BIS 399 Portfolio Reflection
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Students wishing to receive elective credit for courses taken in other departments (either at UW Bothell or UW Seattle) must fill out a Petition for Outside Coursework and obtain faculty approval.
Study Abroad
Summer
Tacoma Campus
Tanya Augsburg. &#8220;Portfolios for Interdisciplinary Studies Students&#8221; in Becoming Interdisciplinary: An Introduction to Interdisciplinary Studies, Second Edition. Dubuque, IA: Kendall/Hunt Publishing Company, 2006. 129-142. [ Accessible PDF ]
Terms
The Capstone is an independent research project intended to be the culmination of the degree program. Building on the networking and research done in the Practicum as well as the planning and design work from the previous quarter, students will work with a faculty advisor to complete and write up their own research. Depending on the nature of the research question and the kind of partners or collaborators students engage, the capstone manuscript may take different formats. In general, capstone manuscripts will include a description of the policy problem, literature review, description of research methods, review of research findings, and conclusions or implications.
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The MA in Policy Studies Dates & Deadlines are available to students, staff, and faculty by logging in the MAPS Degree Resources Canvas . Signing in with your NetID is required.
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The Policy Studies curriculum reflects an innovative, integrated approach to the study of contemporary policy issues in local and global contexts. It prepares students for policy-related analyst and leadership careers in public, private and non-profit organizations.
The portfolio process begins when students take BIS 300 Interdisciplinary Inquiry . In BIS 300, students are introduced to the five core IAS learning objectives and complete a course portfolio that models and launches a process that culminates in the IAS Capstone Portfolio. Other Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences (IAS) courses offer opportunities for students to assess their learning and develop their portfolios. After the completion of each quarter, students should archive all of their work on their google drive. Students will also benefit greatly from taking the 2-credit course, BIS 399 Portfolio Reflection , at a midpoint in their degree.
The primary goal of this class is to help students develop the statistical skills needed to be independent policy researchers. It lays the basic foundation for both academic and practical investigation. This course begins your training by surveying important aspects of the conduct of research into social scientific questions. By the end of the quarter, you will be able to apply appropriate univariate, bivariate, and multivariate statistical techniques to answering research questions; understand the principles and logic behind statistical methods deployed in the course; utilize SPSS to execute a data analysis project and draw statistical inferences; and apply statistical knowledge to understand policy case studies.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
There are many options available to students when it comes to choosing electives. The first place to look is at the BPOLST elective offerings, located for the year on the current courses page. Students can also take graduate level coursework in other degrees, or 400-level classes that are relevant to their field of study. To find other UWB courses, please refer to the UWB Time Schedule . To find courses on the Seattle campus, please refer to the UWS Time Schedule .
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
This course focuses on political and institutional aspects of public policy processes. It examines rationales for public policy and the processes in which they are articulated and negotiated; formulation of policies; selection of policy instruments; policy implementation; and policy analysis. The course pays particular attention to methods and approaches commonly used to analyze policy at the formation and implementation stages of policy-making, including cost-benefit analysis, trend analysis, and deliberative approaches.
This course provides an overview of the major literatures in organization theory and management. Assignments focus on developing managerial skills such as: supervising subordinates, building a team, mapping stakeholders, problem-spotting, and evaluating existing programs. Special attention will be devoted to methods and approaches to program evaluation, including logic models, participatory approaches, and rational/quantitative approaches.
This four-course sequence of quarterly one-credit courses develops students’ professional competence in a number of areas essential to the field of policy work. Workshops deepen skills in applied policy ethics, conflict resolution, policy writing and public speaking, and oral presentation of policy information. Students also network with alumni, professionals active in the field, and other faculty in the program in order to structure their MAPS experience and explore policy perspectives from multiple points of view.
This two-week intensive course at the end of September prepares students for BPOLST 502 and more advanced statistics in the future, by providing a survey of college-level mathematical and foundational statistical methods. Topics to be covered include statistical notation, population, sampling distribution and standard normal distributions, graphs and tables, inferential statistics, descriptive statistics and correlations.
Time Schedule
Total required credits= 48
Undergraduate
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Winter
Winter Quarter
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
You should be prompted to sign into Microsoft. Please use your UW NetID to login
Your IAS portfolio (PPT)
Your IAS Portfolio (video)
