Owner: uw-bothell-business-administration-leadership-and-strategic-innovation:pathway:leadership-and-strategic-innovation-option-school-of-business
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/business/undergraduate/bachelor-of-business-administration/leadership
Title: Leadership & Strategic Innovation Option - School of Business

(Description forthcoming.)
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
10 credits – Complete 2 courses from this list:
15 credits
18807 Beardslee Blvd, Suite 210
425.352.5000
425.352.5394
90 credits
A project-based applied learning practicum focused on introducing students to the field of management consulting. Designed to serve an integrative role, bringing together the functional disciplines and components of the MBA curriculum in a summative project-based consulting experience.
About
Accessibility
Accounting Option
Admissions
Advanced Leadership Models
Advisory boards
All UW Bothell
Alumni
Analyzes economic structures and trends in nations across the globe and examines their implications for business decision-making. Examines how these economies are influenced by political, legal, regulatory, and technological issues in a global context.
Apply As Undergraduate
Apply Now
Autumn
Awards
B BUS 402 – Managing Work Teams
B BUS 441 – Business Project Management (340)
B BUS 443 – Entrepreneurship Seminar
B BUS 444 – Product Development Lab
B BUS 460 – Sustainable Business
B BUS 461 – Business, Government, and Society ( 300, 310 )
B BUS 462 – Negotiations and Conflict Management (300, 320)
B BUS 471 – Entrepreneurial Management
B BUS 472 – Managing Employees (300)
B BUS 473 – Leadership and Decision Making ( 300 )
B BUS 475 – Managing Innovation
B BUS 476 – New Technology and Future Markets (320, 350)
B BUS 477 – Human Resource Management (300)
B BUS 479 – Special Topics in Management (300)
B BUS 491 – Business Consulting
B BUS 501
B BUS 502
B BUS 503
B BUS 504
B BUS 505
B BUS 506
B BUS 507
B BUS 509
B BUS 510
B BUS 512
B BUS 531
Bachelor in Business Administration
Bachelor in Economics
Bachelor of Business Administration
BBUS 300 – Organizational Behavior, Ethics and Inclusivity, Diversity Designated Course
BBUS 307 – Business Writing, Writing Designated Course
BBUS 310 – Managerial Economics (BMATH 144, STMATH 124, or MATH 112)
BBUS 320 – Marketing Management
BBUS 340 – Operations & Project Management
BBUS 350 – Business Finance (310)
BBUS 470 – Business Policy & Strategic Management
BBUS 476 – New Technology and Future Markets (300, 320, 350)
BBUS 477 – Human Resource Management (300)
BBUS 480 – Global Environment of Business
Beardslee Building (UWBB)
Become a Mentor
Before you can register for the capstone courses, you must complete all core courses and meet with your advisor to file a graduation application .
Bothell, WA 98011
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358533
Build your own path with any five electives (20 credits).
Business Communications
Business Consulting Course
Business Intelligence and AI
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone Courses
Certificate in Accounting
Close mobile menu
Commuter Services
Complete one of the following:
Considers some of the most important economic aspects of a business enterprise including demand and cost analysis, pricing strategy (including auctions), and the economics of information. Highlights the usefulness of game theory.
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core Courses
Core Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Corporate Governance
Course Descriptions
Course Numbers & Names
Course Schedule
Course Type
Credits : 64 total (44 core &#8211; listed below, 20 electives)
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Business
Dean’s Advisory Board
Digital Marketing
Direct First-Year Admit (DFA)
Directions & Maps
Directory
Don Whitney Scholarship for Graduate Students
Donor Excellence Scholarship
Duration : Complete in 18 months or set your own pace
Elective
Electives
Electives can be taken any quarter, including Summer. Electives vary per program. Course availability varies per quarter.
Email Us
Enterprise IT Management
Entrepreneurial Finance
Entrepreneurship Concentration
Ethics Conference
Events
Examines factors associated with leader and team effectiveness using high- and low-element exercises and lecture/discussion. Introduces management analysis and decision-making using the case study method. Three-day off-campus retreat followed by two evening class meetings on campus.
Examines financial challenges common to new ventures, and discusses each participant in the venture arena. Explores alternative sources of private equity for new ventures.
Examines how AI and data analytics shape managerial decision‑making and organizational strategy. Covers business intelligence for collecting, analyzing, and visualizing data to produce actionable insights. Introduces core AI concepts—machine learning, natural language processing, and generative AI—and their applications across business functions. Students work with modern analytics tools, dashboards, and cloud-based AI platforms to support data-driven practices. Emphasizes interpreting analytics for business impact and understanding the ethical and governance considerations of responsible AI use.
Examines strategies and state-of-the art analytical methods that support profitable new product introductions.
Examines the operations function in service and manufacturing organizations from a managerial perspective. Key topics include strategic and design decisions relating to operations and processes, quality management, lean systems, inventory control and supply chain management. Uses blend of theory, cases, analytical techniques, and business vignettes.
Examines the theory and processes of negotiation. Includes a broad spectrum of negotiation problems.
Executive Education
Expand Navigation
Explores intangible assets and &#8220;meso&#8221; issues that underpin organizational effectiveness. Topics include organizational phenomena (cultures, structures, routines, capabilities, life cycles), intellectual capital, and knowledge management (creating, maintaining, and diffusing knowledge). Projects require application of best practices to personally relevant situations.
Explores the critical challenges facing businesses in becoming more environmentally sustainable without forgoing traditional indicators of success. Topics drawn from current major concerns related to environment and sustainability, such as climate, water, toxics, transportation, buildings, and food. Application of economics, strategy, marketing, manufacturing and technology, finance, organization theory, and accounting.
Explores the variety of corporate control and governance structures around the world. Examines important governance practices and their impact on corporate strategy and competitiveness.
Facilitates the development of a customer orientation and explores the use of the marketing mix of product, price, place and promotion to create, communicate and deliver value to targeted customer segments. Explains how marketing strategy is developed, implemented, and controlled in the marketplace.
Facilities
Faculty
Finance Option and Concentration
Financial Management
Financial Management (4)
Financial Reporting and Analysis
Financial Reporting and Analysis (4)
Focus on team leadership, strategic change, and organizational growth.
Focuses on critical issues for aligning information technology resources with the enterprise. Demonstrates the role of company mission and objectives on decisions regarding project approval and implementation. Topics include: project due diligence; technology process management; technology agility; enterprise system implementation, legal and ethical aspects, and contemporary issues.
Focuses on leadership and managerial effectiveness. Builds upon students&#8217; knowledge of factors which influence leadership behavior and the critical personal and interpersonal associated with leadership. At a two-day, overnight retreat, students engage in an organizational simulation and receive feedback from faculty and mentors.
Focuses on major top management decisions, emphasizing how competitive advantage is created and maintained through planning and strategy. Using readings and cases, demonstrates importance in diverse industries of external environments (customers, competitors, science and technology, laws), organizational phenomena (structure, processes, decision making), and an international perspective.
Focuses on making written and spoken communications effective and authentic, using case studies of several communication challenges that occur in organizations. Teaches how successful communication is both intentional and strategic; and how to formulate communication goals, understand your audience, and use the correct approach in each situation.
Focuses on understanding design, data analysis techniques, and interpretation of market segmentation studies, customer satisfaction studies, user experience studies, product positioning research, and recommender system. Students have hands-on experience designing research projects and deriving marketing insights from various data analysis exercise and projects.
For questions regarding your submitted online application, please contact our program team.
Format : In-person evening classes, weekend electives with some courses offered online.
General Electives (any 300/400 level UW courses)
General MBA
Get a Mentor
Give
Global Business
Global Business (4)
Global Study Tour
Graduate
Graduate Programs
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
How to apply
Human Resource Management
Human Resources
In this section
Independent Study Projects
Information Technology
Internships
Jobs
Join an Info Session
Leadership & Strategic Innovation Option
Leadership & Strategic Innovation Option - School of Business
Leadership and Ethical Decision Making
Leadership and Ethical Decision Making (4)
Leadership History
Leadership MBA
Leadership Social Responsibility
Leadership Social Responsibility (4)
Learn to innovate in data-driven, tech-focused industries.
Library
LSI curriculum
LSI Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Management Concentration
Management Consulting
Management Information Systems (MIS) Concentration
Managerial Accounting
Managing Organizational Effectiveness
Managing Organizational Effectiveness (4)
Maps & directions
Marketing Intelligence
Marketing Management
Marketing Management (4)
Marketing Option and Concentration
Master of Business Administration
Master of Science in Accounting
Mentors
Mentorship EDGE
Mentorship EDGE Mentors
Microeconomics for Business
Microeconomics for Business (4)
Minor in Actuarial Science
Minor in Business Administration
Minor in Economics
Minor in Retail Management
More Links
MS Accounting Advisory Board
MSA Faculty
MyUW
Negotiations
New Product Marketing
News
Note: schedule subject to change.
Open mobile menu
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Operations and Supply Chain Management (4)
Opportunities
People
PharmD-MBA Program
Policies & Petitions
Pre-Fall
Prerequisite Courses
Prerequisites
Privacy
Professional Coaching
Program Snapshot
Project Management
Promotion and Tenure Guidelines
Provides a general manager&#8217;s perspective on the management of innovation. Focuses on conceptual frameworks and analytical tools for managing innovation throughout the firm. Topics include the nature of innovation, how organizational and technical capabilities affect innovation, product/process development systems, and technology implementation.
Provides an advanced overview of leadership theory and practice and helps students understand and develop their own leadership potential. Relies on a variety of approaches including readings, cases, simulations, guest speakers, activities, discussion, assessments, lectures, and reflection.
Provides an introduction to the models used in the investment and financing decisions of a firm. Topics include: valuation of stocks and bonds; measurement of risk and return; project evaluation and analysis; financial leverage and optimal capital structure, and optimal dividend policy.
Provides an introduction to the strategic role of the human resource function within modern organizations; examines human resource management practices associated with individual and organizational effectiveness, employee satisfaction, and motivation; and develops an understanding of how general managers can apply these concepts in managing people within their organizations.
Provides knowledge and insights to construct, implement, and evaluate digital marketing strategies based on data-driven analysis. Explores topics including search engine optimization, search advertising, display advertising, web analytics, social media marketing, and mobile marketing.
Questions?
Quick Links
Read, interpret, and analyze company financial reports. Understand the procedural aspects of the preparation of financial statements. Acquire a working knowledge of generally accepted accounting principles and financial reporting standards. Understand the ambiguities that arise in preparing financial statements and the role of good business judgment in resolving these ambiguities.
Ready to design your MBA path?
Related Links
Request Information
Required LSI Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Requirements to declare the option
Requires two of the following courses:
Retail Management Concentration
Reviews descriptive statistics, exploratory data, and probability distributions. Studies the theory and methods of statistical inference, emphasizing those applications most useful in modeling business problems. Topics include sampling theory, estimation, hypothesis testing, linear regression, analysis of variance, and several advanced applications of the general linear model.
Ron Tilden Accounting Scholarship
Rules Docket
Schedule : Full-time or part-time available, M/W or T/TH evenings and Saturdays (electives)
Scholarships
School of Business
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Select Electives
Seminar on Global Economic Issues
Skip To Content
Special Core Courses
Special Electives
Specializations
Spring
Staff
Start : Any quarter (Autumn, Winter, Spring, Summer)
Statistics for Business
Statistics for Business (4)
Strategic Management Capstone
Strategic Management Capstone (4)
Students in the Leadership & Strategic Innovation option must complete the following courses for graduation.
Students wanting to declare the LSI Option must complete BBUS 300 and BBUS 307 with a minimum grade of 3.0 in each course.
Study abroad tour that cultivates a rich understanding of business theory and a genuine global perspective. Develops an appreciation of national difference in culture and economic, legal, and political systems that affect business strategy, operations, and performance.
Summer
Supply Chain Management Option
Sustainability
Synthesizes and extends perspective on global business environment. Demonstrates how choices related to organization and strategy (such as outsourcing and diversification) require an understanding of trade theory and policy, differences in national cultures, and international institutions.
Tacoma Campus
Technology / Leadership Electives
Technology & Innovation Management (TIM) Concentration
Technology and Innovation Management
Technology MBA
Terms
The Leadership & Strategic Innovation (LSI) option will engage students in a rigorous study of leadership, strategy, and innovation. You will graduate ready to lead teams, manage innovation, and inspire employees. LSI graduates can go on to become project leads, managers, consultants, business development leads, HR analysts, market analysts, sales managers, entrepreneurs, and much more.
The UW Bothell School of Business MBA Program blends rigorous academics with real-world experiences, preparing you to lead in any business environment. Learn from award-winning faculty, collaborate with peers, and apply your skills to real local and global challenges.
This course is designed to introduce students to concepts, methods and tools of project management. Students will be exposed to topics such as exploring the processes of selecting and defining the project, planning the project, leading the project team, monitoring and controlling the execution of the project, and closing and evaluating the project.
Time Schedule
Total Credits
Tuition & Financial Aid
Tuition and Financial Aid
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
uwbbusiness@uw.edu
uwbmba@uw.edu
Vision, Mission & Values
Visitors
Why hire a business student?
Why study Leadership & Strategic Innovation?
Winter
Workday Login
Year One
Year Two
Your MBA Journey Starts Here
