Owner: uw-bothell-psychology
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/psychology
Title: Psychology - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

(1-2 credits x 4 quarters)
(5 credits, Autumn)
(5 credits, Early Fall)
(5 credits, Spring)
(5 credits, Winter)
(8 credits, Summer)
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
**Dates and deadlines are subject to change. Please check for updates at the beginning of each quarter.**
*IAS will maintain the list of courses
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-2 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-3 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-4 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-5 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
1 elective course = 5 credits
1 research methods course requirement = 5 credits
10 (Full time)
11 CR (Full time)
12-month program/4 quarter
18115 Campus Way NE
200 Level Psychology Courses * (10 credits)
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
5 (Part time)
6 (Part time)
6 core courses (5 at 5 credits; 1 at 1-2 credit x 4 quarters) = 30 credits
A. Psychology core courses
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional Elective Options
Additional IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Also, some courses offered under BIS 316 (special topics), BIS 449 (advanced topics), or BIS 490 (senior seminar), particularly BIS 490: Empathy and BIS 490: Program Evaluation .
Alternative (Part-time) Pathway
Although psychology will be applied/applicable in a wide variety of IAS courses, and a wide variety of IAS courses will be applicable to psychology and psychologists, we offer a solid range of courses that specifically introduce, develop, and apply psychological theory and research.
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Applied in Autumn
Apply As Undergraduate
Autumn
Autumn Quarter
B BIO 310 Brain & Behavior
B BIO 320 Behavioral Neuroscience
B BIO 394 Special Topics in Neuroscience
B BIO 480 Neurobiology
B EDUC 451 Early Childhood Development
B EDUC 458 Emerging Adulthood
B EDUC 481 Adolescent Development
B WRIT 133, B WRIT 134, ENGL 131, or equivalent composition course
B WRIT 135, ENGL 141, or equivalent advanced composition course
B. Research Methods courses
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BACK TO TOP
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
BIS 115 Digital Cultures
BIS 140 Numbers in News Media
BIS 162 Race, Gender, and Sexuality through Film & TV
BIS 165 Introduction to Ethnic Studies
BIS 170 Introduction to Psychology
BIS 170 Introduction to Psychology (or PSYCH 101 equivalent)
BIS 170: Introductory Psychology (taken prior to entering the major)
BIS 180 Introduction to Human Geography
BIS 181 Introduction to Sociology
BIS 193 Introduction to Philosophy
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics (or B MATH 215, B BUS 215, STAT 220, STAT 290, or equivalent introductory statististics course)
BIS 216 Introduction to Cultural Studies
BIS 219 Politics of Sex Education
BIS 220 Developmental Psychology
BIS 220: Developmental Psychology
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality (equivalent to PSYCH 210)
BIS 225 Social Psychology
BIS 225 Social Psychology (overlapping with PSYCH 245)
BIS 225: Social Psychology
BIS 226 Foundations of US Social Services
BIS 235 Critical Media Literacy
BIS 238 Language, Identity, Culture, and Power
BIS 249 Introduction to Labor Studies
BIS 252 Politics of Science
BIS 255 Critical Diversity Studies
BIS 256 Intro to African American Studies
BIS 257 Intro to Asian American Studies
BIS 258 Intro to Latinx Studies
BIS 270 Abnormal Psychology
BIS 270: Abnormal Psychology
BIS 270: Abnormal Psychology should be taken before BIS 422: Clinical Psychology . These courses are paired and meant to build upon one another. Therefore, to benefit from the instruction students should take the more basic course prior to taking the more advanced course.
BIS 279 Introduction to Law & Society
BIS 282 Introduction to Globalization
BIS 307 Environmental Justice
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research Methods (min 2.0 grade)
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research- min. 2.0 grade (5 credits)
BIS 316 Topics in Psychology (can be taken maximum 3 times, different topics)
BIS 317 Language, Society, and Cultural Knowledge
BIS 336 History of Mass Incarceration in the US
BIS 337: Risk and Resilience
BIS 348 Industrial and Organizational Psychology
BIS 349 Personality Psychology
BIS 349: Personality Psychology
BIS 352 Mapping Communities
BIS 352: Mapping Communities
BIS 353 Human Rights in Theory and Practice
BIS 364 Realities & Representations of Adolescent Development
BIS 365 Institutions and Social Change (formally BISSTA 304)
BIS 365: Institutions and Social Change
BIS 367 Ethics and Society (formally BISSTA 359)
BIS 367: Ethics in Society
BIS 368 Asian American Psychology
BIS 369 Indigenous Psychology and Health
BIS 380 Bioethics
BIS 384 Health, Medicine and Society
BIS 422 Clinical Psychology
BIS 422: Clinical Psychology
BIS 422: Clinical Psychology (take after BIS 270)
BIS 438 Prevention and Promotion
BIS 438: Prevention & Promotion (take after BIS 337)
BIS 438: Prevention and Promotion
BIS 445 Meanings and Realities of Inequality
BIS 445: Meanings and Reality of Inequality
BIS 448 Social Policy
BIS 449 Advanced Topics in Psychology
BIS 449: Advanced Topics in Psychology
BIS 450 Decolonizing Psychology
BIS 456 Climate Anxiety, Grief, and Resilience
BIS 483 Community Organizing
BISAES 305 Power, Dissent, and American Culture
BISAES 367 Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration
BISGST 303 History and Globalization
BISGWS 301 Critical Gender & Sexuality Studies
BISLEP 302 Policy Analysis
BISPSY 337 Risk and Resilience (If not taken as a core)
BISPSY 337 Risk and Resilience (not offered regularly)
BISPSY 337: Risk & Resilience
BISPSY 343 Community Psychology (Autumn Quarter)
BISPSY 343 Community Psychology (if not taken as a core)
BISPSY 343: Community Psychology should be taken before taking any other 300-level psychology course or 400-level psychology courses. This course introduces students to a community psychology perspective that is incorporated in all specialized and upper-level courses.
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology (if not taken as a core)
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology (Winter Quarter)
BISPSY 348: Cultural Psychology
BISPSY 350 Intergroup Relations (if not taken as a core)
BISPSY 350 Intergroup Relations (Spring Quarter)
BISPSY 489 Projects in Psychology
BISPSY 489: Projects in Community Psychology
BISPSY 489: Projects in Psychology
BISSTS 231 Genes, Genomes and Heredity
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1) suggested
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (2)
BPOLST 509 Proseminar (1)
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis (5)
BPOLST 513 Practicum
BPOLST 513 Practicum (5)
BPOLST 514 Management & Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project (8)
BPOLST 594 Research Design (5)
BPOLST 594 Research Design is the default means of satisfying the Research Methods requirement. (You may petition for other options, including BPOLST 520 Internship, or BPOLST 598 Directed Research in Advanced Quantitative Methods). The course’s goal is to develop students’ own research questions and explore appropriate research methods for addressing these questions. Readings and discussion provide grounding in research designs, including experimental, longitudinal, cross-sectional, case-study, and participatory action research. Special attention will be devoted to planning and developing student capstone projects.
C. 200-level Psychology courses (10 credits)
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone requirements = 8 credits
Career Planning
Career Resources
Careers
Check BIS 316: Special Topics in Psychology and BIS 449: Advanced Topics in Psychology for additional psychology courses that are not offered on a regular basis.
Click on the link for the form you wish to access
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Community Engagement
Community Organizing/Community Development Path
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Copy the URL for this page into the incognito window
Core Courses
Course/Requirement
Courses
Courses in the Psychology major focus on theory and practice in psychology. Students also learn research methods in various fields including sociology, public health, anthropology, cultural studies, and social justice.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Credits per Quarter
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D. Upper Division Psychology courses (15 credits)
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Degree Completion
Degree Requirements
Develop an understanding of human development and well-being within an ecological framework.
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Abnormal Psychology and Intergroup Relations sound exciting to you?
Do you want to explore a career in mental health counseling or community development?
Draw upon the strengths and perspectives of diverse stakeholders in defining and solving social problems.
E. Psychology electives (15 credits)
Early Fall
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Elective Credits
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Examples of coursework pathways emphasizing particular areas within psychology:
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Fall Convergence
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For security reasons, the submission forms linked in the document require you to log in with a UW NetID. If you receive an error message, or are unable to access the form, please try the following:
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Foundational courses in psychology:
Full-time/Part-time
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Graduates have pursued careers in human services, community development, mental health, family and youth programs, counseling, program evaluation, community arts, and public relations.
Graduation Programs in Washington State
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
href="https://psych.uw.edu/undergraduate/life-after-uw/graduate-school/programs-in-washington"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/career-services/appointments"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/career-planning#interest"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
href="https://www.washington.edu/undergradresearch/find/"
Human Resources
iasgrad@uw.edu
iasinfo@uw.edu
If you are NOT a current UW Bothell student, please contact the UW Bothell Admissions team at uwbinfo@uw.edu .
If you would like to explore the major, consider taking one of the below courses. Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
If you’re a current UW Bothell student interested in applying to the Psychology major, you can find more information on our How to apply page.
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Information Technology
Integrate knowledge across disciplines and contexts in ways that respect different approaches to understanding human development and well-being.
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 70 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
It is founded on the belief that students attain their highest levels of understanding and proficiency when combining practice with theory and connecting classroom and real life environments. Through class seminars, small group collaboration, field research, a practicum, and a capstone project, students acquire the depth of knowledge, practical experiences, and professional skills that position them for success in the world of policy.
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to apply
Learn more about how to conduct an Internship
Learn more about how to enroll in Directed Research
Learn more about how to participate in Study Abroad program
Learn more about the capstone research process
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Listed below are three possible coursework pathways within the major that, along with other elective courses related to particular problems, communities, or settings, would help students acquire and articulate a clear skill set and knowledge base for different career interests. These are not meant to be the only pathway options, and some pathways may combine various interests. For example, students interested in early intervention for youth might want to combine and tailor the first and second, or the second and third pathways.
Major Requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
Mental Health/Human Services Path
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
Most students opt to complete the program in 12 months. But for those whose other responsibilities do not allow for full-time enrollment, there is an alternative, part-time pathway, as follows:
MyUW
N/A
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note that not all psychology courses have the name psychology in the title. For example, the following courses do not include “psychology” in their title: BISPSY 337: Risk and Resilience ; BISPSY 350: Intergroup Relations ; BIS 438: Prevention and Promotion ; Also, some courses that are not focused on psychology per se will be very valuable for Psychology majors, for instance BIS 352: Mapping Communities .
Note: See all IAS policies and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
On this page: Overview | Curriculum | Dates & Deadlines | Core Courses | Elective Credits | Other Options
One Psychology Core Course &#8211; min. 2.0 grade (5 credits)
Open an incognito window ( What is incognito mode or private browsing, and how to do it)
Open mobile menu
Other options
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership etc.
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership, etc.
Policy Studies (MA)
Policy Studies streamlined its curriculum to offer an accelerated pathway, enabling students to obtain their master’s degree in just 12 months.
Policy Studies students enter the program as a cohort in autumn of each year. Core courses are offered as seminars that meet once a week. These seminars are combined with on-line and/or individual and small group discussions, workshops, case studies and analytical projects as well as field experiences, service learning and applied research opportunities. The course of study culminates with a Capstone Project.
PRACTICE
Practicum courses provide students with the opportunity to explore particular social and policy issues by connecting with community stakeholders that influence and are affected by those issues. The goal is to build relationships with communities with whom students are interested in working and/or conducting research. This course will advance around the three themes of exploration, connection, and relationship building. Students explore their community and political settings by conducting informal research into these contexts. Students will connect with community stakeholders through direct service, informational interviews, events, and/or other means. Currently in development and review for 2017-2018.
Prerequisites
Prevention and Health Promotion Path
Privacy
PROFESSION
Program Dates & Deadlines
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
Psychology - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Psychology Electives * (15 credits)
Psychology is a dynamic major that offers students various pathways for academic and professional development. Students should take courses that provide a foundation for and a broad perspective on psychology. But the field also draws from theory and practice in sociology, community development, social ecology, public health, anthropology, cultural and performance studies, public policy, social work, and social justice movements. Students should aim to define and develop their own interdisciplinary perspectives and contextual approaches for the study of social problems and the promotion of people’s well-being. Students have freedom to define the major for their own goals and interests, but that means they also have the responsibility for making it meaningful.
Psychology students are passionate about understanding the well-being of individuals and communities. Students interested in examining social problems will thrive within the Psychology major.
PURPOSE
Quarter
Quick Links
Ready to apply?
Recommended preparation
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research Methods Requirement (5): BPOLST 594 Research Design (default): BPOLST 520 Internship or BPOLST 598 Directed Research by petition to capstone advisor
Research Methods Requirement/ BPOLST 594 Research Design
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See a description of current courses being offered.
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
See your Academic Advisor if you have transferred in one of the 200 level Psychology Courses
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
Start thinking about what courses will be required by or desirable to graduate programs or employers, and plan your schedule accordingly. Many courses offered only once a year (e.g., developmental psychology or personality psychology) may be required for admission to particular graduate programs. Some 400-level courses will provide students the chance to do significant integrative projects that will make grad school applications competitive (e.g., BISCP 489, BIS 438, or BIS 490). These kinds of courses also provide the kinds of interactions with faculty that ground effective letters of recommendation.
Still having difficulties? Contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000.
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students have some choices about which psychology courses they take and the areas of psychology they emphasize (e.g., clinical or developmental), but we recommend that students aim for at least 4 courses in foundational psychology (these are listed in the next section).
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students must complete the following prerequisites, with a minimum 2.0 grade, to declare the Bachelor of Arts in Psychology major.
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Students wishing to receive elective credit for courses taken in other departments (either at UW Bothell or UW Seattle) must fill out a Petition for Outside Coursework and obtain faculty approval.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-300)"
Summer
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
The Capstone is an independent research project intended to be the culmination of the degree program. Building on the networking and research done in the Practicum as well as the planning and design work from the previous quarter, students will work with a faculty advisor to complete and write up their own research. Depending on the nature of the research question and the kind of partners or collaborators students engage, the capstone manuscript may take different formats. In general, capstone manuscripts will include a description of the policy problem, literature review, description of research methods, review of research findings, and conclusions or implications.
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The MA in Policy Studies Dates & Deadlines are available to students, staff, and faculty by logging in the MAPS Degree Resources Canvas . Signing in with your NetID is required.
The major curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives . Additionally, students taking courses and/or majoring in Psychology:
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The Policy Studies curriculum reflects an innovative, integrated approach to the study of contemporary policy issues in local and global contexts. It prepares students for policy-related analyst and leadership careers in public, private and non-profit organizations.
The primary goal of this class is to help students develop the statistical skills needed to be independent policy researchers. It lays the basic foundation for both academic and practical investigation. This course begins your training by surveying important aspects of the conduct of research into social scientific questions. By the end of the quarter, you will be able to apply appropriate univariate, bivariate, and multivariate statistical techniques to answering research questions; understand the principles and logic behind statistical methods deployed in the course; utilize SPSS to execute a data analysis project and draw statistical inferences; and apply statistical knowledge to understand policy case studies.
The Psychology major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to study social problems and improve the well-being of people in their communities. While the field draws heavily from psychology, it also draws from texts and research in sociology, community development, ecology, public health, anthropology, cultural and performance studies, public policy, social work, and social justice movements. Through community based research, community psychologists produce knowledge that can inform social policies, social service work, helping practices, and community change.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
There are many options available to students when it comes to choosing electives. The first place to look is at the BPOLST elective offerings, located for the year on the current courses page. Students can also take graduate level coursework in other degrees, or 400-level classes that are relevant to their field of study. To find other UWB courses, please refer to the UWB Time Schedule . To find courses on the Seattle campus, please refer to the UWS Time Schedule .
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
This course focuses on political and institutional aspects of public policy processes. It examines rationales for public policy and the processes in which they are articulated and negotiated; formulation of policies; selection of policy instruments; policy implementation; and policy analysis. The course pays particular attention to methods and approaches commonly used to analyze policy at the formation and implementation stages of policy-making, including cost-benefit analysis, trend analysis, and deliberative approaches.
This course provides an overview of the major literatures in organization theory and management. Assignments focus on developing managerial skills such as: supervising subordinates, building a team, mapping stakeholders, problem-spotting, and evaluating existing programs. Special attention will be devoted to methods and approaches to program evaluation, including logic models, participatory approaches, and rational/quantitative approaches.
This four-course sequence of quarterly one-credit courses develops students’ professional competence in a number of areas essential to the field of policy work. Workshops deepen skills in applied policy ethics, conflict resolution, policy writing and public speaking, and oral presentation of policy information. Students also network with alumni, professionals active in the field, and other faculty in the program in order to structure their MAPS experience and explore policy perspectives from multiple points of view.
This two-week intensive course at the end of September prepares students for BPOLST 502 and more advanced statistics in the future, by providing a survey of college-level mathematical and foundational statistical methods. Topics to be covered include statistical notation, population, sampling distribution and standard normal distributions, graphs and tables, inferential statistics, descriptive statistics and correlations.
Time Schedule
Tips for choosing and planning courses
Tips for determining what courses to take and when to take them:
Tips for exploring graduate school
Total = 70 Credits
Total required credits= 48
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
Undergraduate research
Understand, evaluate and participate in the development of effective intervention, prevention, and health promotion strategies and programs for individuals, small groups, and communities.
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
Upper Division Psychology Courses * (15 Credits)
Utilize interdisciplinary methods and approaches to community action and research.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
We strongly recommend that students in the Psychology major take at least 4 of the following courses (in addition to BISPSY 343: Community Psychology ), and probably more if they plan on graduate study in some area of psychology. Again, it works best if they are taken sequentially (200-level before 300-level before 400-level).
When possible, take 200-level psychology courses before taking 300-level or 400-level psychology courses. 200-level psychology courses (e.g., BIS 270: Abnormal Psychology , BIS 220: Developmental Psychology ) are basic courses meant to provide foundational knowledge that is helpful for doing well in more advanced courses (e.g., BISPSY 337: Risk and Resilience , BIS 422: Clinical Psychology , or other advanced topics courses).
When possible, take the required methods course early ( BIS 312: Approaches to Social Research Methods ). This course provides necessary knowledge for understanding 300- and 400-level specialized courses (e.g., BISPSY 337: Risk and Resilience ; BIS 349: Personality Psychology ; BISPSY 489: Projects in Psychology ), and should ideally be taken prior to the last 3 quarters in the major.
Why Policy Studies?
Winter
Winter Quarter
Work collaboratively across diverse groups and organizations through Community-Based experience and internships.
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
You should be prompted to sign into Microsoft. Please use your UW NetID to login
