Owner: uw-bothell-conservation-and-restoration-science
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/conservation-restoration-science
Title: Conservation & Restoration Science - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
|
Undergraduate
|
Majors
|
Conservation & Restoration Science
Conservation & Restoration Science
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
Are you passionate about protecting ecosystems, plants, and wildlife?
The Conservation & Restoration Science (CRS) major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to recover habitats and protect wildlands from degradation due to disaster, contamination, overuse, or climate change. Academic and other learning experiences enhance students’ ability for lab research, data analysis, communication, and problem-solving. Conservation & Restoration Science is a major in the Health & Natural Sciences meta-major pathway. Sometimes it is described as a major in Natural Resource Management or Climate Science.
PURPOSE
Students in the Conservation & Restoration Science major are passionate about maintaining and repairing natural landscapes impacted by climate change, invasive species, neglect, and the growth of urban spaces. Students spend time outdoors to examine the interaction between ecosystems and their various inhabitants.
PRACTICE
Courses in the Conservation & Restoration Science major focus on lab and field experiences to provide students with a working knowledge of science research and analysis. Ongoing practice with graphing software and monitoring equipment helps students design effective sustainability plans to protect and restore wildlands.
PROFESSION
Using their background in science and research, graduates in the Conservation & Restoration Science major go on to consult on policies, design reclamation plans, and manage the environmental affairs for businesses, education, nonprofit organizations, and wildlife centers. They also work in federal or local governments.
Learning objectives
The Conservation & Restoration Science major prepares students by deepening their ability to understand the mechanics of ecological systems and integrate biological and chemical processes to modify or reverse degradation or other environmental threats. The following learning objectives prepare students to make informed decisions about the management of natural resources:
Engage in Conservation & Restoration Science
Apply scientific understanding to the concepts of biological diversity, sustainability, ecological integrity and the socio-political systems with which they interact.
Recognize the important roles of indigenous knowledge and values in understanding and managing natural systems.
Acquire first-hand knowledge of regional ecosystems and the human communities dependent on them to enable meaningful engagement in local conservation and restoration activities.
Contacts
Martha Groom
Faculty Coordinator
Jennifer Cabarrus
Lab Manager
Penelope Wood
Research Librarian
Please contact the Conservation & Restoration Science Faculty Coordinator if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about the Conservation & Restoration Science major.
Collect and analyze environmental data to address questions and assess impacts, identify management options, and identify new research directions.
Evaluate alternative responses to environmental problems, such as habitat change, biodiversity loss, and climate change, and advance solutions that enhance resilience, equity and sustainability.
Prepare for careers in conservation and restoration in academic, governmental, non-profit, and private sectors.
Learn data collection methods and technologies, such as field ecology methods, geo-technologies such as GIS and remote sensing, and ecosystem modeling for research projects, investigations, and surveys.
Understand the philosophical and scientific underpinnings of conservation and restoration science, including its strengths, limitations, and assumptions.
Promote equity & inclusion
Critically reflect on the social drivers of environmental problems and environmental inequity.
Build environmental consciousness and promote ethical human intervention for environmental and human sustainability.
Apply an understanding of ethics, power, and intergenerational equity in conservation and restoration decision-making.
Communicate & collaborate with others
Use both written and oral communication to effectively communicate the issues, questions, findings, and body of knowledge of conservation and restoration science to peers and the public, and to produce effective visual representations of data that articulate knowledge of conservation and restoration science.
Constructively work with others in partnership and shared leadership to achieve project goals.
Interact and communicate with others in disciplines outside of conservation and restoration science and beyond academia to produce new knowledge and understanding needed to address the interdisciplinary and multi-dimensional environmental issues of the future.
Plan your degree
Recommended preparation
Interested in exploring this major, but not ready to commit? First-year students at UW Bothell should consider taking one or more of the courses listed below to prepare for the Conservation & Restoration Science major.
Useful preparation for this major includes formal and informal training in environmental courses and field work.
B CHEM 143 General Chemistry I & B CHEM 144 Gen Chem Lab
BEARTH 153 Introduction to Geology
BEARTH 154 Introduction to Oceanography
BEARTH 155 Introduction to Climate Science
BIS 243 Introduction to Environmental Issues
BIS 246 Introduction to Sustainability
Prerequisites
There are no formal prerequisites for the Conservation & Restoration Science major.
Current UW Bothell students in good standing can declare this major at any time using the online Major Declaration Form .
Incoming students can apply for this major when applying for admission to UW Bothell.
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
>
Learn more about how to apply
Learn more about how to apply
Major Requirements
Degree Requirements
Students who entered the Conservation & Restoration Science (CRS) major prior to Autumn 2024 have different degree requirements. Please see your Academic Advisor for questions and academic planning.
Conservation & Restoration Science Introductory Science Coursework (31 credits):
B MATH 123 Precalculus II or MATH 120 Precalculus (5 credits)
Students who complete Calculus coursework do not need to complete a Precalculus Course. See your Academic Advisor for assistance.
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics or other Introductory Statistics Course (B MATH 215, B BUS 215, or STAT 220/290) (5 credits)
B BIO 180 or BIO 180 Introductory Biology I (5 credits)
B CHEM 143 & B CHEM 144 General Chemistry and Lab (CHEM 120, CHEM 142 CHEM 143, or CHEM 145 or equivalent) (5 or 6 credits)
BIS 242 Environmental Geography or BIS 243 Introduction to Environmental Issues (5 credits)
BIS 245 Environment & Humanities (5 credits) (WIN quarter)
Conservation & Restoration Science Core Coursework (45 credits):
BES 301 Science Methods & Practice OR BST 301 Scientific Writing (5 Credits)
BES 312 Ecology or B BIO 471 Plant Ecology (5 credits)
BES 362 Introduction to Restoration Ecology (5 credits) (AUT or SPR quarter)
BES 385 Biodiversity Conservation (5 credits) (WIN quarter)
BES 316 Ecological Methods OR BEARTH 317 Soils in the Environment OR BEARTH 318 Hydrogeology OR BEARTH 321 Geomorphology (5 credits)
BIS 307 Environmental Justice (AUT/WIN quarter) OR BIS 304 Political Economy and the Environment (SPR quarter) (5 credits)
BIS 342 Geographic Information Systems (5 credits)
BIS 356 Ethics and the Environment (AUT or SPR quarter) OR BIS 456 Climate Anxiety, Grief, and Resilience (SPR quarter) (5 credits)
BIS 386 Climate Change Adaptation (WIN or SPR quarter) OR BEARTH 320 Impacts of Climate Change (SPR quarter) (5 credits)
Conservation & Restoration Science Elective Coursework (20 credits)
See full approved course list below for course options
Total= 96 credits
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 96 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR page for course options.
Upper Division Credit Policy: Of the credits applying to major requirements, a minimum of 55 credits must be completed at the Upper Division (300-400) level.
Note: See all IAS polices and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
