Owner: uw-bothell-american-and-ethnic-studies
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/american-ethnic-studies
Title: American & Ethnic Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
*Recommended to take prior to AES Core Course
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
10 credits of Composition Coursework
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. Introduction to American & Ethnic Studies (AES:CORE)
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional Elective Options
Additional School of IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Additional School of IAS Requirements
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted Students
AES Core Course: BISAES 305 Power, Dissent, and American Culture (5 credits)
AES Courses (15 credits from any of the 3 areas above)
AES Courses (30 credits) approved area course lists below
AES majors are encouraged to register for BISAES 465 Advanced Seminar in American Ethnic Studies to complete their IPR requirement.
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American & Ethnic Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Apply As Undergraduate
Apply critical and interdisciplinary knowledge within a range of academic, professional, and community-based settings.
Autumn Quarter
B WRIT 133 or B WRIT 134 or ENGL 131 or equivalent (5 credits)
B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141 or equivalent (5 credits)
B. Skills & Methods (AES:METHODS)
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BACK TO TOP
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
BIS 140 Numbers in News Media
BIS 162 Race, Gender, and Sexuality through Film & TV
BIS 163 The Lives of Objects
BIS 164 Introduction to World Literature
BIS 165 Introduction to Ethnic Studies
BIS 166 Memory, History, and Literature in the United States
BIS 167 People&#8217;s History of the U.S.
BIS 167 People&#8217;s History of the United States
BIS 167 People&#8217;s History of the US
BIS 174 American Lives
BIS 175 Introduction to American Goverment
BIS 175 Introduction to American Government
BIS 180 Introduction to Human Geography
BIS 181 Introduction to Sociology
BIS 203 Economics of Gender
BIS 216 Introduction to Cultural Studies
BIS 219 The Politics of Sex Education
BIS 224 Introduction to Feminist Studies
BIS 227 Rad Women in the Global South
BIS 230 Introduction to Disability Studies
BIS 233 Social Media in Context
BIS 234 Media, Culture, and Capitalism
BIS 235 Critical Media Literacy
BIS 238 Language, Identity, Culture and Power
BIS 242 Environmental Geography
BIS 249 Introduction to Labor Studies
BIS 255 Critical Diversity Studies
BIS 256 Introduction to African American Studies
BIS 257 Introduction to Asian American Studies
BIS 258 Introduction to Latino/Latina Studies
BIS 258 Introduction to United States Latina/Latino Studies
BIS 266 United States History to 1865
BIS 267 United States History from 1865
BIS 279 Introduction to Law and Society
BIS 280 U.S. Political Processes
BIS 293 Special Topics
BIS 310 Women, Culture, and Development
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research – min. 2.0 grade OR BIS 340 Approaches to Cultural Research &#8211; min. 2.0 grade (5 credits)
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research (min grade of 2.0)
BIS 323 History of Photography
BIS 326 Race, Space, and Segregation
BIS 327 History of U.S. Labor Institutions
BIS 328 Diversity, Leadership and Engagement
BIS 331 Journalism and Media History
BIS 335 Human Rights in America
BIS 336 History of Mass Incarceration in the United States
BIS 338 Political Institutions and Processes
BIS 340 Approaches to Cultural Research (min grade of 2.0)
BIS 347 History of American Documentary Films
BIS 352 Mapping Communities
BIS 353 Human Rights in Theory and Practice
BIS 357 Native American Religious and Philosophical Thought
BIS 361 Studies in American Literature
BIS 365 Institutions and Social Change (formerly BISSTA 304)
BIS 366 The Family in U.S. Society
BIS 368 Asian American Psychology
BIS 369 Indigenous Psychology and Health
BIS 370 Nineteenth-Century American Literature
BIS 371 Twentieth-Century American Literature
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World
BIS 379 American Ethnic Literature
BIS 379 American Ethnic Literatures
BIS 387 Women and American Literature
BIS 393 Special Topics
BIS 403 Washington D.C. Seminar on Human Rights
BIS 406 Urban Planning and Geography
BIS 407 Children&#8217;s Literature and Reader Response Criticism
BIS 410 Topics in Qualitative Inquiry
BIS 414 Topics in Human Rights
BIS 415 Public Policy and Law
BIS 416 U.S. Constitutional Law
BIS 418 Global Scholars: Global Citizenship in Context
BIS 443 Educational Policy and the American Economy
BIS 448 Social Policy
BIS 455 Literature and Sexuality
BIS 466 Human Rights and Resistance
BIS 470 Art, Politics, and Social Change
BIS 483 Community Organizing
BIS 490 Advanced Seminar
BIS 493 Special Topics
BISAES 305 Power, Dissent, and American Culture
BISAES 364 Public Memory and Dissent in American Culture
BISAES 367 Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration
BISAES 369 American Culture and Mass Media
BISCLA 384 Literary and Popular Genres
BISGWS 302 Histories and Movements of Gender and Sexuality
BISGWS 303 Approaches to Feminist Inquiry
BISPSY 350 Intergroup Relations
BISSTS 307 Science, Technology, and Society
BISSTS 420 Race, Gender, Science, and Medicine
BISSTS 455 History of Science and Technology
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
C. Historical and Social Inquiry (AES:HSI)
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Planning
Career Resources
Careers
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Contacts
Course is only taught in Autumn quarter
Courses
Courses in the American & Ethnic Studies major focus on the relationships between power, inequality, resistance, social and environmental justice within the United States and beyond. Using various scholarly methods, students make connections between the past and present, utilizing different forms of theory, practice, and interpretation.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Critical Theory and Practice (5 credits)
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Current UW Bothell students in good standing can declare a major in American & Ethnic Studies at any time using the online Major Declaration Form .
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D. Textual Analysis and Interpretation (AES:TAI)
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Dani Rowland
Data Visualization
Degree Completion
Degree Requirements
Develop creative, collaborative, and intersectional approaches for the study of the Americas.
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Diversity, Leadership and Engagement and Human Rights in America sound exciting to you?
Do you want to explore a career in Diversity & Inclusion, Community Organizing or Education?
E. Critical Theory and Practice (AES:CTP)
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explore how structures of power in the Americas have constituted and been constituted by diverse and intersecting categories such as race, place, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, class, nationality, and ability.
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
F. Topics Courses
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Faculty Coordinator
Fall Convergence
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Full-time/Part-time
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Historical and Social Inquiry (5 credits)
Housing
How to apply
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
Human Resources
iasgrad@uw.edu
iasinfo@uw.edu
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practices & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 75 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interdisciplinary Writing Seminar: BIS 290 (5 credits) (Prerequisite of B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141)*
Interested in exploring this major but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to apply
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Major Requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mira Shimabukuro
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
MyUW
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: Classes in this option are offered primarily during daytime hours.
Note: See all IAS polices and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
Open mobile menu
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Please contact the Psychology Faculty Coordinator if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about the Psychology major.
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Studies (MA)
PRACTICE
Prerequisites
Privacy
PROFESSION
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
PURPOSE
Quick Links
Recommended preparation
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research American cultures in both the past and the present using a variety of sources, including literary texts, historical archives, film, photographs, comics, newspapers, oral histories, sound recordings, and government documents.
Research Librarian
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students in the American & Ethnic Studies major are passionate about understanding how humans interact with each other. Students who are curious about the diverse and intersecting categories of race, place, ethnicity, gender, sexuality, class, nationality, and ability thrive in the American & Ethnic Studies major.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students position themselves for success by bringing a global perspective to their career choice. Students develop flexible critical thinking, writing and speaking skills which prepares them for careers in government, non-profits, or with social justice organizations. Alumni also pursue graduate study in legal, cultural, and historical fields.
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
Textual Analysis and Interpretation (5 credits)
The American & Ethnic Studies curriculum advances the five core School of IAS learning objectives . Students taking courses and/or majoring in American & Ethnic Studies:
The American & Ethnic Studies major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to study the relationships in American history and between minority and majority groups. Academic and other learning experiences enhance students&#8217; ability for future work in human services, work in politics or community organizing for underrepresented populations, using critical thinking and decision making skills learned through the student of the American culture and beyond. Students will explore values, ideas, belief systems, and expression and will examine the relationship between everyday life, power structures, and cultural forms.
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The following degree requirements are required as of Winter 2025 quarter. Students who entered the American & Ethnic Studies (AES) major prior to Winter 2025 have different degree requirements. Please see your Academic Advisor for questions and academic planning.
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
There are no official prerequisites for this major.
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
Think critically about the relationship between power, inequality, resistance, difference, and social and environmental justice in the United States and in relation to the larger world.
Time Schedule
Tips for exploring graduate school
Topics courses under the below course numbers may apply to the AES major depending on the subject and title. Please see the Time Schedule notes to determine how they count toward the major.
TOTAL = 75 Credits
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Winter Quarter
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
