Owner: uw-bothell-mathematical-thinking-and-visualization
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/mathematical-thinking-visualization
Title: Mathematical Thinking & Visualization - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
[Supplemental official source] general admission requirements
*Should be taken in the first quarter of IAS enrollment.
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. Understanding Art Forms (MTV: ART)
About IAS
Academic Advisor
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Acquire critical competence in different ways to address real-world, quantitative concerns and to find solutions that are both efficient and equitable.
Additional IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Admission to the School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences depends on your application type:
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alumni
Alyssa Berger
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Apply as a First-year student if any of the following statements describe you:
Apply As Undergraduate
Apply your leadership abilities to better understand how teams and organizations operate and thrive! ​
B BUS 215 Business Statistics
B IMD 233 Fundamentals of Web Media Technology
B IMD 250 Intro to Interaction Design
B IMD 250 Introduction to Interaction Design
B MATH 144 Calculus for Life Sciences (does not satisfy prerequisite for STMATH 125: Calculus 2)
B MATH 215 Health Statistics
B. Mathematical Reasoning Courses (MTV:MR)
BACHELOR OF ARTS
Back to top
Baska Anderson
BEARTH 201 Mapping the Earth System
Beginning Autumn 2024 Quarter, the MTV major will be changing its name to Data Visualization. With this name change, degree requirements will be changing. An updated website will be posted in Spring Quarter with the new program and degree requirements. Please contact an IAS Academic Advisor for questions.
BES 440 Remote Sensing of the Environment
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics
BIS 218 The Power of Maps
BIS 231 Linear Algebra or STMATH 208 Matrix Algebra (5 credits)
BIS 232 Data Visualization (5 credits)
BIS 233 Participatory Media Culture
BIS 236 Introduction to Interactive Media
BIS 300 Interdisciplinary Inquiry* – min. 2.0 grade (5 credits)
BIS 302 Issues in Mathematics Across Cultures
BIS 319 Public Arts and Ecological Restoration
BIS 329 Topics in Mathematics Across the Curriculum
BIS 342 Geographic Information Systems
BIS 343 Geographic Visualization
BIS 344 Intermediate Geographic Analysis and Applications
BIS 352 Mapping Communities
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World
BIS 382 The Visual Art of Biology
BIS 385 Art and Climate Change
BIS 411 Network Analysis & Visualization
BIS 412 Advanced Data Visualization
BIS 442 Advanced GIS Analysis and Applications
BIS 447 Topics in Quantitative Inquiry
BIS 499 Portfolio Capstone – min. 2.5 grade (5 credits)
BISIA 250 Photography as Art
BISIA 319 Interdisciplinary Arts
BISIA 342 Materials and Meanings
BISIA 350 Photography and Digital Art
BISMCS 473 Visual Communication
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
C. Visualization Practice and Methods Courses (MTV:VPM)
Caleb Trujillo
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Planning
Careers
Carrie Bodle
Charlie Collins
Cinnamon Hillyard
Close mobile menu
Colin Danby
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Courses
Courses in the Mathematical Thinking & Visualization major prepare students to create graphic representations of problems and data sets, and communicate this information to others. Students gain an understanding of data science through hands-on classroom experience.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
CSS 107 Intro to Programming through Animated Storytelling
CSS 107 Introduction to Programming through Animated Storytelling
CSS 142 Computer Programming I
CSS 143 Computer Programming II
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Current site
Current UW Bothell Students
Curriculum
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Degree requirements
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Visual Communication and Geographic Information Systems sound exciting to you? Do you want to explore a career in Data Analysis, Data Visualization, or Information System Management?
Due to the limited number of course offerings, IAS does not admit new students for Summer quarter.
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Faculty Coordinator
Fall Convergence
First-Year Student applicants
Frequently asked questions about IAS admissions
Funding
Gain experience creating visual representations of problems and data, and communicate these ideas, results, and analyses in multiple formats.
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Generate reliable data and choose appropriate methods to apply to a given data set.
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate students should refer to the graduate admissions page .
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
How to apply - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Human Resources
I am a transfer student admitted to the IAS program, what is the next step? And when can I register?
I am interested in applying for Summer quarter. Is that a possibility?
I have earned college credits during my time in high school (ex: Running Start), and I plan to enter UW Bothell right after graduating from high school. Note: It does not matter how many college credits you have earned or will earn.
I have never attended college since leaving high school, regardless of my age or whether I ever graduated from high school.
I plan to enter UW Bothell in the summer or fall after graduating from high school.
I was dropped for low scholarship. How do I apply to be reinstated to IAS?
iasinfo@uw.edu
If you are an IAS student and have not been enrolled for more than one quarter (excluding summer quarter), then you must re-apply using the returning student application. If you have questions about registration and graduation dates, please email the Academic Advising office to check your degree progress.
If you are currently enrolled at the University of Washington Bothell as a Pre-major student, or a student in another major, you can submit the IAS Major Declaration Form to enter into any IAS major. Some majors are open admission majors and have no specific prerequisite courses. Some majors are minimum requirement majors and will require prerequisite courses with at least a 2.0 grade. Check the major website for specific requirements.
If you are currently enrolled or have previously been enrolled at a community college or university, and are not currently taking courses from UW Bothell, please review the transfer student admissions page and admissions planning worksheets .
If you have questions about IAS majors, major requirements, admission process and application status, please email the Admissions advisors .
IMPORTANT NOTICE
In addition to major-specific learning objectives, undergraduate students in all majors within Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences (IAS) focus on five core learning objectives .
In addition to the general admission requirements , students must have completed the following prerequisites to be considered for admission to the Bachelor of Arts in Mathematical Thinking & Visualization:
In order for a newly admitted student to confirm admission via the Enrollment Confirmation System, they will need to create a UW NetID . Questions regarding creation of/set up of UW NetIDs can be forwarded to Admissions at uwbapply@uw.edu or 425.352.5000.
In this section
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in exploring this major but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Internships
Jin-Kyu Jung
Jobs
Joe Ferrare
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn to apply statistical and mathematical tools and critique their applications, including building and evaluating arguments based on quantitative data.
Learn to work in interdisciplinary teams to communicate and to understand a range of issues, especially those around social and planetary justice, that have quantitative underpinnings.
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Major requirements
Majors
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
MATH 124 Calculus 2
Mathematical Reasoning Course OR Visualization Practice and Methods Course (5 credits)
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
MTV: ART- Understanding Art Forms (5 credits)
MTV: MR- Mathematical Reasoning Courses (10 credits)
MTV: VPM- Visualization Practice and Methods Courses (10 credits)
MyUW
News
Nhi Tran
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: Classes in this major will be offered primarily during day-time hours.
On this page: Major Description | Requirements | Learning Objectives | Faculty & Staff | Courses
Once ready to submit a declaration form follow this link to the IAS Major Declaration Form . Use this form to declare your first major or to add an additional major. Current UW Bothell students can email iasapply@uw.edu with any questions about declaring an IAS major.
one quarter of calculus (min 2.0 grade)
One quarter of statistics (min 2.0 grade)
Open mobile menu
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Please visit the UW Bothell Admission Office webpage to apply to the University of Washington Bothell as a First-year student.
Policy Studies (MA)
Practice
Prerequisites
Privacy
Profession
Prospective Students
Psychology
Purpose
Quick Links
Rebecca Price
Recommended preparation
Research Librarian
Research Opportunities
Returning Student applicants
Review the UW Tri-Campus Immunity Verification Requirement .
Rob Turner
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Santiago Lopez
Sara Maxwell
Scholarship
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Sign up for a new student orientation .
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring Festival
Staff
STAT 220 Statistical Reasoning
STMATH 124 Calculus 1
STMATH 125 Calculus II
STMATH 126 Calculus III
STMATH 300 Foundations of Modern Mathematics
STMATH 310 Mathematical Game Theory
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students in the Mathematical Thinking & Visualization major are passionate about interacting with data and technology to solve problems or understand concerns. MTV students enjoy communicating to others through the creative presentation of information and quantitative research.
Students who have been dropped for low scholarship can apply to be reinstated to IAS. Review the reinstatement process on the Petitions & Forms webpage to begin this process.
Students will choose at least two courses that extend their capacities in visualization and communication. Visualization practices and methods may include modeling and tools for exploring and examining data sets. It includes interactive presentation through the simultaneous display of multimedia data such as numbers, words, and images, and informal modes of communication, along with polished presentations to specific audiences. Courses in this category develop means of representing, and critically examining data and arguments.
Students will choose at least two courses that will help them develop the mathematical tools gained in their prerequisite and core courses. This list will evolve as curricula across UW Bothell change; courses in this category explicitly study mathematical principles. That emphasis is manifest in their readings, assignments, and evaluation. This criterion does not exclude courses with substantial application, but a student finishing a course in this category should be able to reflect critically on the mathematical principles learned, in a way that aids their thoughtful application elsewhere.
Students will choose one course that allows them to explore visual art forms or design as a means to communicate information to an audience.
Study Abroad
Synthesize quantitative research with other ways of knowing.
Tacoma Campus
Terms
The Mathematical Thinking & Visualization (MTV) major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to develop new practices and tools for discovering, analyzing, and representing data. The MTV major allows students to link the ability to recognize mathematical forms in relation to real-world problems and the ability to communicate and think about data in visualized form across contexts.
The Mathematical Thinking & Visualization major is no longer accepting new students.
Thesis Work
Time Schedule
To be able to register, you must confirm your enrollment, verify Immunization and attend a new student orientation. Then, you should be able to register the orientation. Newly admitted IAS students may register during Registration Period 2. Please visit the following pages for detailed information:
To confirm your enrollment, please visit the Online Enrollment Confirmation System (ECS).
TOTAL = 70 Credits
Transfer Student applicants
Undergraduate
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Using their background in Mathematical Thinking & Visualization, graduates in this major help make future decisions through the effective use of data. Students in the major find work as data and business analysts, marketing managers, or communication strategists.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Workday Login
You are considered a transfer applicant if you have completed (or will complete) college coursework from a regionally accredited college or university following the summer after high school graduation, but have not yet earned a bachelor’s degree.
You should apply as a Transfer Student only if you have earned college credits after the summer you graduated from high school.
