Owner: uw-bothell-law-economics-and-public-policy
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/law-economics-public-policy
Title: Law, Economics & Public Policy - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. LEPP Core Courses (LEPP:CORE)
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Acquire appropriate skill sets for analyzing, displaying and employing data (qualitative and quantitative) as evidence for understanding social, legal and political concerns.
Additional IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Additional Skills & Methods coursework (5 credits)
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Apply As Undergraduate
Are able to apply the above skills to address complex social and policy problems in practice in order to foster greater equity and ethically negotiate intersectional spaces where diverse interests are represented.
B BUS 215 Introduction to Business Statistics
B MATH 215 Statistics for Health Sciences
B WRIT 133 OR B WRIT 134 OR ENGL 131 or equivalent Composition course (5 credits)
B WRIT 135 OR ENGL 141 or equivalent Composition course (5 credits)
B. Statistics Requirement
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BACK TO TOP
BEARTH 155 Introduction to Climate Science
Become an effective and persuasive speaker, writer and presenter.
BIS 175, BIS 280, POL S 202 or equivalent American Government/Politics course
BIS 180 Introduction to Human Geography
BIS 183 Introduction to the Middle East
BIS 200/B BUS 220, ECON 200 or equivalent Microeconomics course (5 credits)
BIS 201/B BUS 221 Introduction to Macroeconomics
BIS 203 Economics of Gender
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics (5 credits)
BIS 219 The Politics of Sex Education
BIS 226 Foundations of U.S. Social Service
BIS 227 Rad Women in the Global South
BIS 234 Media, Culture, and Capitalism
BIS 249 Introduction to Labor Studies
BIS 252 Politics of Science
BIS 255 Critical Diversity Studies
BIS 279 Introduction to Law & Society
BIS 282 Introduction to Globalization
BIS 284 International Relations
BIS 293 Special Topics
BIS 304 Introduction to Political Economy and the Environment
BIS 307 Environmental Justice
BIS 310 Women, Culture and Development
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research
BIS 314 Topics in Geography
BIS 316 Topics in Psychology
BIS 326 Race, Space, and Segregation
BIS 327 History of US Labor Institutions
BIS 335 Human Rights in America
BIS 336 History of Mass Incarceration in the United States
BIS 338 Political Institutions & Processes
BIS 339 Global Cultural Studies
BIS 340 Approaches to Cultural Research
BIS 341 Topics in the Study of Culture
BIS 342 Geographic Information Systems
BIS 343 Geographic Visualization
BIS 349 Industrial and Organizational Psychology
BIS 352 Mapping Communities
BIS 353 Human Rights in Theory and Practice
BIS 359 Principles & Controversies of Sustainability
BIS 365 Institutions and Social Change (formerly BISSTA 304)
BIS 367 Ethics and Society (formerly BISSTA 359)
BIS 374 Middle East Politics
BIS 380 Bioethics
BIS 384 Health, Medicine and Society
BIS 386 Climate Change Adaptation Policy
BIS 392 Water & Sustainability
BIS 393 Special Topics
BIS 394 Comparative Economic Development
BIS 396 Topics in Sustainability
BIS 403 Washington D.C. Seminar on Human Rights
BIS 406 Urban Planning and Geography
BIS 408 Critical Physical Geography
BIS 410 Topics in Qualitative Inquiry
BIS 414 Topics in Human Rights
BIS 415 Public Policy & Law
BIS 416 U.S. Constitutional Law
BIS 421 Technology Policy
BIS 441 Global Labor Markets
BIS 442 Advanced Geographic Information Systems
BIS 442 Advanced GIS Analysis and Applications
BIS 443 Education Policy & the Economy
BIS 447 Topics in Quantitative Inquiry
BIS 448 Social Policy
BIS 456 Climate Anxiety, Grief and Resilience
BIS 458 Energy, Environment, and Society
BIS 459 Conservation & Sustainable Development
BIS 466 Human Rights & Resistance
BIS 468 Human Rights & Sustainability
BIS 483 Community Organizing
BIS 490 Advanced Seminar
BIS 491 Topics in Policy Studies
BIS 493 Special Topics
BIS 495 Internship
BIS 497 Political Internship in State Government
BIS/BEDUC 328 Diversity, Leadership, and Engagement
BISAES 305 Power, Dissent, and American Culture
BISGST 303 History and Globalization
BISGST 324 International Political Economy
BISGST 397 Topics in Global Studies
BISGST 497 Advanced Topics in Global Studies
BISGWS 302 Histories and Movements of Gender and Sexuality
BISLEP 301 Law, Economics & Public Policy (5 credits)
BISLEP 301 Law, Economics & Public Policy (5 credits) (AUT or WIN quarter)
BISLEP 302 Policy Analysis (5 credits)
BISLEP 302 Policy Analysis (5 credits) (WIN or SPR quarter)
BISLEP 397 Topics in Law, Economics, and Public Policy
BISLEP 497 Advanced Topics in Law, Economics, and Public Policy
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
C. Skills & Method Courses (LEPP:SKILLS)
Camille Walsh
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Planning
Career Resources
Careers
Chelsea Nesvig
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Contacts
Courses
Courses in the Law, Economics & Public Policy major include class discussion, writing exercises, and group projects to help students interpret and analyze complex legal and political issues, and communicate about real-world issues affecting the public.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Curriculum
D. Policy Foundation Courses (LEPP:FOUND)
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Degree Requirements
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Human Rights in America or Intro to Public Policy sound exciting to you?
Do you want to explore a career in Government, Management, or Law?
E. Policy Problem Courses (LEPP:PROBLEM)
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
English Composition Coursework
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
F. Courses that may count in LEPP
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Faculty Coordinator
Fall Convergence
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Graduates of the Law, Economics & Public Policy major use their knowledge of political institutions to pursue careers in law, business, public health, non-profit agencies, media, consulting, federal agencies, state government, & politics.
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
Human Resources
iasinfo@uw.edu
In this section
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 70 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in exploring this major but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Introduction Microeconomics Course
Introduction to American Government or American Politics (5 credits)
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Law, Economics & Public Policy - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Learn more about how to apply
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Major Requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
MyUW
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: Classes in this major are offered primarily during day-time hours.
Note: See all IAS policies and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
Open mobile menu
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Please contact the Law, Economics & Public Policy Faculty Coordinator if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about the major.
Policy Foundation courses (10 credits)
Policy Foundation or Policy Problem courses (20 credits)
Policy Studies (MA)
PRACTICE
Prerequisites
Privacy
PROFESSION
Prospective Students
Psychology
PURPOSE
Quick Links
Recognize and understand the role of ethical dimensions inherent in policy-making.
Recommended preparation
Research Librarian
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring Festival
Staff
STAT 220 Statistical Reasoning
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students choose from one of the Skills and Methods courses
Students choose from one of the Statistics courses
Students in the Law, Economics & Public Policy major are passionate about participating in policy and legal decisions to create change and promote citizenship. Students may be interested in attending law school or pursuing a career in law.
Students must complete both Core courses
Students must complete the following prerequisites, with a minimum 2.0 grade, to declare the Bachelor of Arts in Law, Economics, and Public Policy major. Once all have been completed you can submit a declaration form using the online Major Declaration Form .
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
The following degree requirements are required as of Autumn 2024 quarter. Students who entered the Law, Economics, and Public Policy (LEPP) major prior to Autumn 2024 have different requirements. Please see your Academic Advisor for questions and academic planning.
The Law, Economics & Public Policy curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives . Students taking courses and/or majoring in Law, Economics & Public Policy:
The Law, Economics, & Public Policy (LEPP) major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to explore how legal institutions shape policy decisions, and how political and economic contexts influence the creation of law. The major also provides opportunities for advocacy and reflection on problems and issues impacting education, business, the environment, and human rights. Academic and other learning experiences enhance student’s analytical, research, and communication skills which prepares them for law school and other graduate or professional opportunities.
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
Thesis Work
Time Schedule
Tips for exploring graduate school
Topics courses under the below course numbers may apply to the LEPP major depending on the subject and title. Please see the Time Schedule notes to determine how they count toward the major.
TOTAL = 70 Credits
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
Understand, critically examine, and apply theories and models of economic, political, social, and legal decision-making and policy-making.
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Workday Login
