Owner: uw-bothell-culture-literature-and-the-arts
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/culture-literature-arts
Title: Culture, Literature & the Arts - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
10 credits of Composition Coursework
18115 Campus Way NE
35 credits from any of the courses below in any of the areas
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. Culture, Literature & the Arts Core Courses (CLA:CORE)
About IAS
Academic Advising
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Academic Support & Resources
Academic Support Programs
Accessibility
Additional CLA Major Coursework (35 credits)
Additional Elective Options
Additional School of IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Analyze diverse forms of cultural production and consumption, including literature and language, film and media, music and sound, visual arts and images, performing arts and kinesthetics;
Apply As Undergraduate
Appreciate the richness and complexity of artistic communication, language, and imagination;
Art, Film, and Literary Histories
Autumn Quarter
B WRIT 133 or B WRIT 134 or ENGL 131 or equivalent (5 credits)
B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141 or equivalent (5 credits)
B. Culture, Literature & the Arts Courses (CLA)
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BACK TO TOP
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
BIS 115 Digital Cultures
BIS 121 Introduction to Drawing
BIS 131 Introduction to Arts Practice
BIS 132 Introduction to Photography
BIS 133 Introduction to Acting
BIS 134 Introduction to Dance
BIS 135 Introduction to Painting
BIS 136 Introduction to Art History
BIS 137 Why Art Matters
BIS 140 Numbers in News Media
BIS 161 Introduction to Film Narrative
BIS 162 Race, Gender, and Sexuality through Film & TV
BIS 163 The Lives of Objects
BIS 164 Introduction to World Literature
BIS 165 Introduction to Ethnic Studies
BIS 166 Memory, History, and Literature in the United States
BIS 167 People&#8217;s History of the United States
BIS 179 Introduction to Journalism
BIS 183 Introduction to the Middle East
BIS 185 Art & Climate Change
BIS 193 Introduction to Philosophy
BIS 205 Technologies of Expression
BIS 206 Engaging Literary Arts
BIS 207 Shakespeare and Film
BIS 208 Experimenting through the Arts
BIS 209 Engaging Visual and Media Arts
BIS 212 Engaging Performing Arts
BIS 216 Introduction to Cultural Studies
BIS 219 The Politics of Sex Education
BIS 224 Introduction to Feminist Studies
BIS 227 Rad Women in the Global South
BIS 233 Social Media in Context
BIS 234 Media, Culture, and Capitalism
BIS 235 Critical Media Studies
BIS 236 Introduction to Interactive Media
BIS 238 Language, Identity, Culture and Power
BIS 245 Environment & Humanities
BIS 252 Politics of Science
BIS 255 Critical Diversity Studies
BIS 256 Introduction to African American Studies
BIS 257 Introduction to Asian American Studies
BIS 258 Introduction to US Latina/Latino Studies
BIS 261 Introduction to Film Studies
BIS 266 United States History to 1865
BIS 267 United States History from 1865
BIS 268 World History to 1500
BIS 269 World History after 1500
BIS 282 Introduction to Globalization
BIS 290 Interdisciplinary Writing Seminar
BIS 301 Narrative Forms
BIS 310 Women, Culture and Development
BIS 313 Issues in Media Studies
BIS 317 Language, Society and Cultural Knowledge
BIS 319 Public Arts and Ecological Restoration
BIS 322 Topics in Performance Studies
BIS 323 History of Photography
BIS 324 Gender, Human Rights, and Global Cinema
BIS 325 Japanese Popular Culture in History
BIS 326 Race, Space, and Segregation
BIS 331 Journalism and Media History
BIS 332 Global Digital Industries
BIS 335 Human Rights in America
BIS 336 History of Mass Incarceration in the US
BIS 339 Issues in Global Cultural Studies
BIS 340 Approaches to Cultural Research
BIS 341 Topics in the Study of Culture
BIS 347 History of American Documentary Film
BIS 351 Topics in American Culture
BIS 356 Ethics and the Environment
BIS 361 Studies in American Literature
BIS 363 Politics and Popular Music
BIS 365 Institutions and Social Change
BIS 367 Ethics and Society
BIS 370 Nineteenth Century American Literature
BIS 371 Twentieth Century American Literature
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World
BIS 373 Caribbean Film and Popular Culture
BIS 377 British Literature and the Gothic Novel
BIS 378 Languages of Poetry
BIS 379 American Ethnic Literatures
BIS 387 Women and American Literature
BIS 388 Literature in Translation
BIS 389 American Indian Literature
BIS 407 Children&#8217;s Literature and Reader Response Criticism
BIS 431 Issues in Sexual Politics and Cultures
BIS 455 Literature and Sexuality
BIS 464 Topics in Advanced Cinema Studies
BIS 470 Art, Politics, and Social Change
BIS 471 Women in Art
BIS 486 Studies in Women and Literature
BIS 487 Topics in American Literature
BIS 488 Topics in British Literature
BISAES 364 Public Memory and Dissent in American Culture
BISAES 367 Exploring American Culture: Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration
BISAES 369 American Culture and Mass Media
BISAES 465 Advanced Seminar in American Ethnic Studies
BISCLA 201 Exploring Culture, Literature, and the Arts (Winter 2026 and beyond)
BISCLA 201- Students who enter the major Winter 2026 and beyond
BISCLA 380 Arts in Context
BISCLA 380 Arts in Context (pre-Autumn 2025)
BISCLA 380 or BISCLA 384- Students who enter the major Autumn 2025 or prior
BISCLA 384 Literary and Popular Genres
BISCLA 384 Literary and Popular Genres (pre-Autumn 2025)
BISGWS 303 Approaches to Feminist Inquiry
BISIA 207 Introduction to Creative Writing: Words, Stories, Dialogues
BISIA 230 Performing Arts Techniques
BISIA 240 Visual and Media Arts Techniques
BISIA 250 Photography as Art
BISIA 283 Interdisciplinary Art Techniques
BISIA 310 Creative Writing: Poetry
BISIA 311 Creative Writing: Prose
BISIA 319 Interdisciplinary Arts
BISIA 340 Visual and Media Arts Workshop
BISIA 344 Video Art
BISIA 350 Photography and Digital Art
BISIA 383 Interdisciplinary Arts Workshop
BISIA 401 Literary and Arts Journal Editorial Board
BISIA 410 Advanced Creative Writing Workshop
BISIA 450 Image and Imagination
BISIA 483 Advanced Interdisciplinary Arts Workshop
BISIA 484 Arts Learning in the Community
BISMCS 279 Journalism Writing
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Planning
Career resources
Careers
CLA Core (5 credits- One Course)
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Contacts
Courses
Courses in the CLA major focus on the historical, social, & aesthetic aspects of art and culture. Students gain an understanding of the complex relations among lived, represented, and speculated existence with special attention to the intersections among gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, class, disability, and other identities.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Creative Writing and Writing Studies
Culture, Historical, and Societal Studies
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Culture, Literature & the Arts - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
David Goldstein
Degree Completion
Degree Requirements
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Journalism & Media History and Representation, Colonialism, & the Tropical World sound exciting to you? Do you want to explore a career in Education, Journalism, or Public Relations?
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Engage the complex question of what cultures are and do;
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Faculty Coordinator
Fall Convergence
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Full-time/Part-time
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
Have questions about the major, a specific class, or suggestions on the student/faculty experience? Contact the Faculty Coordinator. Need support for a class research project or assignment? Contact the Research Librarian.
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
Human Resources
iasgrad@uw.edu
iasinfo@uw.edu
If you are NOT a current UW Bothell student, please contact the UW Bothell Admissions team at uwbinfo@uw.edu .
If you&#8217;re a current UW Bothell student interested in applying to the Culture, Literature & the Arts major, you can find more information on our How to apply page.
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 70 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in exploring this major, but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
Investigate the importance of form, design, and genre across the arts;
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to apply
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Leslie Hurst
Library
Major requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
MyUW
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: See all IAS polices and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
Open mobile menu
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Studies (MA)
PRACTICE
Prerequisites
Privacy
PROFESSION
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
PURPOSE
Quick Links
Ready to apply?
Recommended preparation
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research Librarian
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See below for approved list of CLA Courses
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students gain an understanding of the complex relations among lived, represented, and speculated existence. CLA courses focus on the historical, social, and aesthetic dimensions of arts and culture, with special attention to the intersections among gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, class, disability, and other vectors of power and privilege.
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students in the Culture, Literature & the Arts major are passionate about understanding diverse cultures and societies, and their literature and arts. Students who are interested in exploring diversity and who wish to hone their critical thinking and writing skills or improve their intercultural fluency will thrive within the CLA major.
Students in the major study written and visual texts, interactive and performative modes of practice, and philosophical and theoretical accounts of those texts and practices.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
The Culture, Literature & the Arts curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives . Students taking courses and/or majoring in Culture, Literature & the Arts:
The Culture, Literature & the Arts major (CLA) inquires into the make-up of diverse cultures and societies, and their literatures and arts.
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The following degree requirements are required as of Autumn 2024 quarter. Students who entered the Culture, Literature & Arts (CLA) major prior to Autumn 2024 have different requirements. Please see your Academic Advisor for questions and academic planning.
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
There are no official prerequisites for this major in the School of IAS.
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
Time Schedule
Tips for exploring graduate school
To get personalized help with degree planning, course selection, registration, graduation applications, or to schedule a meeting with an academic advisor, visit the UW Bothell Academic Advising webpage.
To raise a concern, ask questions, or share general feedback, visit the Student Feedback page .
TOTAL = 70 Credits
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
Understand how artistic practices and cultural production vary across time and space.
Understand how creativity and artistic expression are embedded within larger social and cultural contexts;
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and/or 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
Using their background in Culture, Literature & the Arts, graduates in this major communicate with others through their use of the English language in career roles such as education, advocacy, and consulting. Students in the CLA major pursue careers in teaching, public relations, journalism, libraries, publishing and other fields.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell students have access to free services and resources to support them throughout their educational journey. Located in the Learning Commons (UW2-030) services include Academic Success Coaching (ASC), the Quantitative Skills Center (QSC), and the Writing & Communication Center (WaCC). Visit the Learning Commons webpage to learn more about tutoring, writing support, and success strategies
UW Bothell students in good academic standing (minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA or above) can declare this major anytime using the online Major Declaration Form
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Winter Quarter
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
