Owner: uw-bothell-business-administration
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/business/undergraduate/bachelor-of-business-administration
Title: Bachelor of Business Administration - School of Business

(*Note: Students in the process of completing a course will not be considered for the Accounting Option until the course has been completed.)
(1 credit)
(4 credits)
(Description forthcoming.)
[Supplemental official source] Accounting Option
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
[Supplemental official source] Entrepreneurship Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Finance Option and Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Prerequisite Courses
[Supplemental official source] Prerequisites
[Supplemental official source] See full Admissions Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
[Supplemental official source] UW Bothell Business curriculum and areas of study
**Accounting Option students who add a Finance Concentration cannot count the following courses as Accounting Option electives:
**AP Statistics score not accepted
*Accounting Option students who add a Finance Concentration cannot use the following courses as part of their Finance Concentration (i.e., no double-counting of courses):
*AP Calculus score of 3, 4, or 5 accepted
*AP Language/Literature Exam scores not accepted
*AP Macroeconomics score of 3, 4, or 5 accepted
*AP Microeconomics score of 3, 4, or 5 accepted
*Higher level business statistics accepted
*Meeting the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission.
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
1. Application form
10 credits – Complete 2 courses from this list:
10 credits &#8211; Complete two courses from this list:
10 credits from the following:
18807 Beardslee Blvd, Suite 210
2. Unofficial transcripts
3. Personal statement
425.352.5000
425.352.5394
5 credits
60 Credits
90 Credits
A cumulative GPA (grade-point average) of at least a 2.0 in all college coursework.
A minimum cumulative GPA of at least a 2.5 in all business prerequisites.
A minimum grade of 2.0 in each business prerequisite course
A minimum of 60 transferable quarter credits.
A positive grade trend
A project-based applied learning practicum focused on introducing students to the field of management consulting. Designed to serve an integrative role, bringing together the functional disciplines and components of the MBA curriculum in a summative project-based consulting experience.
About
Accessibility
Accountant, auditor, or financial analyst
Accounting
Accounting certification preparation
Accounting curriculum
Accounting Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Accounting Option
Accounting Option - School of Business
Accounting Option students must complete the following courses for graduation.
Accounting Profession
Accounting Profession (1 credit)
Accounting Professional Development
Accounting Theory
Admissions
Admissions - School of Business
Admissions Snapshot
Admitted students must complete a minimum of 60 transferable quarter credits (80 preferred), with a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least a 2.0 and also have a cumulative business prerequisite GPA of at least a 2.5, prior to beginning their business studies at UW Bothell. These credits must include all of the following prerequisite courses (with a minimum grade of 2.0 in each):
Advanced Accounting and Analytics
Advanced Business Law
Advanced Composition
Advanced Leadership Models
Advanced Managerial Accounting
Advanced Managerial Accounting (4 credits)
Advanced Quantitative Methods
Advanced Quantitative Methods (4 credits)
Advanced Taxation
Advisory boards
After completing the two-year Accounting Option, students are eligible to take the Certified Management Accountant (CMA) exam . Students who wish to become a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) , however, should plan on spending three years in the program. To take the CPA exam, a student needs a minimum of 225 quarter hours or five years of college (a master degree is not required).
All applicants for whom English is a non-native language must provide proof of English Language Proficiency by providing scores that meet the University&#8217;s minimum.
All prerequisite coursework — the business prerequisites below must be completed prior to beginning the program. See Prerequisite Courses for a list of equivalent transferable courses.
All UW Bothell
Alumni
Analyzes economic structures and trends in nations across the globe and examines their implications for business decision-making. Examines how these economies are influenced by political, legal, regulatory, and technological issues in a global context.
Applicants are evaluated on GPA, prerequisite performance, and a personal statement.
Applicants can refer to this grid of approved Prerequisite Courses .
Applicants interested in the Accounting Option must earn a minimum 2.5 grade in all accounting prerequisites and a cumulative 3.0 average across accounting courses.
Applicants must also complete 10 credits of English composition to meet eligibility requirements.
Applicants must meet the following requirements in order to be considered for admission.
Application requirements
Apply As Undergraduate
Apply Now
Apply today
Areas of Study
Arts & Humanities: 15 credits
Autumn
Awards
B ACCT 500:
B ACCT 501:
B ACCT 502 :
B ACCT 503:
B ACCT 505:
B ACCT 506:
B ACCT 510:
B ACCT 568:
B BUS 220/BIS 200
B BUS 221/BIS 201
B BUS 361 – Intermediate Accounting I
B BUS 402 Managing Work Teams
B BUS 427 Entrepreneurial Marketing (320)
B BUS 443 Entrepreneurship Seminar
B BUS 444 Product Development Lab
B BUS 456 Entrepreneurial Finance (350)
B BUS 464 New Product Marketing (320)
B BUS 471 Entrepreneurial Management
B BUS 476 New Technology & Future Markets (300, 320, 350)
B BUS 478 Venture Startup, Management & Growth
B BUS 501
B BUS 502
B BUS 503
B BUS 504
B BUS 505
B BUS 506
B BUS 507
B BUS 509
B BUS 510
B BUS 512
B BUS 531
B MATH 144
B WRIT 135* (must be designated (C) composition)
B.A. in Business Administration requirements
BA& 240
Bachelor in Business Administration
Bachelor in Economics
Bachelor of Business Administration
Bachelor of Business Administration - School of Business
Bachelor of Economics
Bachelor of Science in Economics degree
BBUS 300 – Organizational Behavior, Ethics and Inclusivity, Diversity Designated Course
BBUS 307 – Business Writing, Writing Designated Course
BBUS 310 – Managerial Economics (BMATH 144, or STMATH 124, or MATH 112)
BBUS 310 – Managerial Economics (BMATH 144, STMATH 124, or MATH 112)
BBUS 320 – Marketing Management
BBUS 340 – Operations & Project Management
BBUS 340 – Operations & Project Management (310)
BBUS 350 – Business Finance (310)
BBUS 361 – Intermediate Accounting 1*
BBUS 361 – Intermediate Accounting I
BBUS 362 – Intermediate Accounting 2 (361)
BBUS 363 – Intermediate Accounting 3 (362)
BBUS 373 – Cost Accounting
BBUS 373 – Cost Accounting*
BBUS 411 – Auditing Theory & Practice (362)
BBUS 412 – Advanced Business Law
BBUS 435 – Accounting Information Systems (361)
BBUS 449 – Accounting Practices in Not-for-Profit Organizations (363)
BBUS 450 – Federal Income Taxation (361)
BBUS 451 – Financial Policy & Planning
BBUS 451 – Financial Policy & Planning (350) **
BBUS 451 – Financial Policy and Practice (350)
BBUS 452 – Financial Modeling (350)
BBUS 453 – Financial Institutions & Markets
BBUS 453 – Financial Institutions and Markets (350)
BBUS 454 – Investments
BBUS 454 – Investments (350)
BBUS 458 &#8211; Risk Modeling
BBUS 463 &#8211; Advanced Financial Accounting (362)
BBUS 465 &#8211; Applied Financial Accounting (350)
BBUs 466 &#8211; Applied Managerial Accounting (350)
BBUS 467 – Advanced Taxation (450)
BBUS 468 – Advanced Accounting and Analytics (363)
BBUS 470 – Business Policy & Strategic Management
BBUS 480 – Global Environment of Business
BBUS 490 – Special Topics in Business (300, 310)
Beardslee Building (UWBB)
Because the Bachelor Degree in Business Administration is an upper division program, students begin the program after completing prerequisite coursework. Transfer students applying to UW Bothell as Business majors and UW Bothell students declaring a Business major must have completed the majority of following courses at the time of application. All prerequisite coursework must be completed prior to matriculation (i.e., the start of studies at UW Bothell).
Become a Mentor
Before you can register for the capstone courses, you must complete all core courses and meet with your advisor to file a graduation application .
BIS 215 (previously BIS 315), B BUS 215, BMATH 215, or STMATH 341
BIS 215 (previously BIS 315), or B BUS 215, or BMATH 21, or STMATH 341
Bothell, WA 98011
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358533
Build leadership and innovation capacity
Build the skills to lead in a changing world
Build your expertise. Advance your career. Become a leader in accounting.
Build your own path with any five electives (20 credits).
Business Communications
Business consultant, project manager, or entrepreneur
Business Consulting Course
Business Intelligence and AI
Business law: Fulfilled by the law prerequisite
Business students may specialize in one of four options or choose from one of eight concentrations and a self-directed concentration.
Calculus
Calculus or Business Calculus
Campus Safety
Candidates are evaluated on the following criteria:
Canvas
Capstone Courses
Career Outcomes
Career-ready skills. Build expertise in leadership, analytics, strategy, and communication that employers seek.
Carry the distinction of a University of Washington degree, respected worldwide for excellence and opportunity.
Certificate in Accounting
Choices for your major
Choose two courses (10 credits) from the following:
Close mobile menu
COMMON TRANSFER COURSE NUMBERING
Commuter Services
Competitive applications have the following qualities:
Completion of all prerequisite courses
Completion of prerequisite coursework is required before starting.
Concentration Courses
Concentrations
Connections that matter. Access internships, networking, and mentorship across greater Seattle&#8217;s dynamic business community.
Considers some of the most important economic aspects of a business enterprise including demand and cost analysis, pricing strategy (including auctions), and the economics of information. Highlights the usefulness of game theory.
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core Courses
Core Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Corporate Financial Reporting
Corporate Financial Reporting (4 credits)
Corporate Governance
Course Descriptions
Course Numbers & Names
Course Schedule
Course Type
Courses
COURSES
Credits : 64 total (44 core &#8211; listed below, 20 electives)
Cumulative college GPA of 3.0
Current Bothell students: log in with you UW email address to submit an internal application online.
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Business
Customize your degree with one of four Options or seven Concentrations, or design your own pathway.
Dean’s Advisory Board
Develop a strategic mindset and global business perspective
Develop analytical and decision-making skills
Digital Marketing
Direct First-Year Admit (DFA)
Directions & Maps
Directory
Don Whitney Scholarship for Graduate Students
Donor Excellence Scholarship
Duration : Complete in 18 months or set your own pace
Duration: 12 – 24 months
ECON 200
ECON 201
ECON& 201
ECON& 202
Elective
Elective (4 &#8211; 8 credits)
Elective (4 credits)
Elective (4-8 credits)
Electives
Electives can be taken any quarter, including Summer. Electives vary per program. Course availability varies per quarter.
Electives: to complete 90 transferable credits
Email Us
ENG& 102
ENGL 111, 121, 131, 182, 197, 198, 199, 281, 282, 297, 298, 299, 381, or 382
English Composition (10 credits)
Enterprise IT Management
Entrepreneurial Finance
Entrepreneurship
Entrepreneurship Concentration
Entrepreneurship Concentration - School of Business
Entrepreneurship curriculum
Ethics Conference
Evening classes with select options for daytime classes.
Events
Examine the many management challenges facing modern business organizations and how to use the tools needed to deal with a complex and rapidly changing environment. Areas of study include entrepreneurship, leadership and decision making, conflict resolution, human resources, and managing employees. Graduates often pursue careers in consulting or as leaders in the private or public sector. Learn more about the Management concentration .
Examines factors associated with leader and team effectiveness using high- and low-element exercises and lecture/discussion. Introduces management analysis and decision-making using the case study method. Three-day off-campus retreat followed by two evening class meetings on campus.
Examines financial challenges common to new ventures, and discusses each participant in the venture arena. Explores alternative sources of private equity for new ventures.
Examines how AI and data analytics shape managerial decision‑making and organizational strategy. Covers business intelligence for collecting, analyzing, and visualizing data to produce actionable insights. Introduces core AI concepts—machine learning, natural language processing, and generative AI—and their applications across business functions. Students work with modern analytics tools, dashboards, and cloud-based AI platforms to support data-driven practices. Emphasizes interpreting analytics for business impact and understanding the ethical and governance considerations of responsible AI use.
Examines strategies and state-of-the art analytical methods that support profitable new product introductions.
Examines the operations function in service and manufacturing organizations from a managerial perspective. Key topics include strategic and design decisions relating to operations and processes, quality management, lean systems, inventory control and supply chain management. Uses blend of theory, cases, analytical techniques, and business vignettes.
Examines the theory and processes of negotiation. Includes a broad spectrum of negotiation problems.
Executive Education
Expand Navigation
Explore all Areas of Study
Explore the School of Business
Explores intangible assets and &#8220;meso&#8221; issues that underpin organizational effectiveness. Topics include organizational phenomena (cultures, structures, routines, capabilities, life cycles), intellectual capital, and knowledge management (creating, maintaining, and diffusing knowledge). Projects require application of best practices to personally relevant situations.
Explores the critical challenges facing businesses in becoming more environmentally sustainable without forgoing traditional indicators of success. Topics drawn from current major concerns related to environment and sustainability, such as climate, water, toxics, transportation, buildings, and food. Application of economics, strategy, marketing, manufacturing and technology, finance, organization theory, and accounting.
Explores the variety of corporate control and governance structures around the world. Examines important governance practices and their impact on corporate strategy and competitiveness.
Facilitates the development of a customer orientation and explores the use of the marketing mix of product, price, place and promotion to create, communicate and deliver value to targeted customer segments. Explains how marketing strategy is developed, implemented, and controlled in the marketplace.
Facilities
Faculty
Fall
Finance
Finance Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Finance Option and Concentration
Financial Accounting I
Financial Accounting II (if applicable)
Financial Accounting Seminar
Financial Management
Financial Management (4)
Financial Reporting and Analysis
Financial Reporting and Analysis (4)
Financial Statement Analysis
Financial Statement Analysis (4 credits)
First-year students may directly enter this program .
Focus on team leadership, strategic change, and organizational growth.
Focuses on critical issues for aligning information technology resources with the enterprise. Demonstrates the role of company mission and objectives on decisions regarding project approval and implementation. Topics include: project due diligence; technology process management; technology agility; enterprise system implementation, legal and ethical aspects, and contemporary issues.
Focuses on leadership and managerial effectiveness. Builds upon students&#8217; knowledge of factors which influence leadership behavior and the critical personal and interpersonal associated with leadership. At a two-day, overnight retreat, students engage in an organizational simulation and receive feedback from faculty and mentors.
Focuses on major top management decisions, emphasizing how competitive advantage is created and maintained through planning and strategy. Using readings and cases, demonstrates importance in diverse industries of external environments (customers, competitors, science and technology, laws), organizational phenomena (structure, processes, decision making), and an international perspective.
Focuses on making written and spoken communications effective and authentic, using case studies of several communication challenges that occur in organizations. Teaches how successful communication is both intentional and strategic; and how to formulate communication goals, understand your audience, and use the correct approach in each situation.
Focuses on understanding design, data analysis techniques, and interpretation of market segmentation studies, customer satisfaction studies, user experience studies, product positioning research, and recommender system. Students have hands-on experience designing research projects and deriving marketing insights from various data analysis exercise and projects.
For example, if you&#8217;re a transfer student completing the remaining prerequisites in summer quarter, you can still apply to UW Bothell in spring with the intention of starting Business classes in fall quarter, so long as you&#8217;ve completed all the prerequisites before fall quarter begins.
For questions regarding your submitted online application, please contact our program team.
Foreign language: Two years in high school or 10 credits of one foreign language at the college level
Forensic Accounting
Format : In-person evening classes, weekend electives with some courses offered online.
Full-time or Part-time tracks
Gain tangible skills through projects, internships, and case studies
General Electives (any 300/400 level UW course)
General MBA
Get a Mentor
Get Updates
Give
Global Business
Global Business (4)
Global Study Tour
Graduate
Graduate Programs
Graduates are prepared for diverse opportunities in private, public, and nonprofit sectors. Roles include:
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
How to apply
Human Resource Management
Human Resources
In addition to public accounting, the Accounting Option will thoroughly prepare students for careers in private, government and non-profit accounting. The curriculum is designed to enable graduates to fill a number of corporate positions such as internal auditor, managerial accountant and tax accountant. Graduates will also be prepared to serve in government positions such as tax examiner, budget analyst and government auditor. You can get more information from the Washington Society of Certified Public Accountants .
In addition to the B.A. in Business Administration requirements, students must complete the general university requirements listed below prior to graduation. Some of the above courses count towards general university requirements.
In this section
Independent Study Projects
Information Technology
Internships
Introduction to Law or Business Law
Introduction to Statistics
It&#8217;s important to plan the courses you will take prior to applying for admission to UW Bothell&#8217;s School of Business B.A. in Business Administration major.
Jobs
Join an Info Session
Leadership & Strategic Innovation (LSI)
Leadership & Strategic Innovation Option
Leadership and Ethical Decision Making
Leadership and Ethical Decision Making (4)
Leadership and Strategic Innovation
Leadership History
Leadership MBA
Leadership Social Responsibility
Leadership Social Responsibility (4)
Learn how firms make financial decisions and how these decisions affect individual organizations and society as a whole. You&#8217;ll learn how firms acquire and allocate funds, how financial markets operate, and the role these markets play in economic welfare. The study of finance includes the use of models to develop analytical approaches to problems. Graduates take positions in financial institutions such as commercial and investments banks, finance departments of major corporations, or consulting firms. Learn more about the Finance concentration .
Learn more about admissions requirements as well as how to apply .
Learn the technical and business skills required to solve business problems in technology-based environments. You&#8217;ll learn to conduct structured and informal analyses to design and improve applications and systems, from e-commerce storefronts to enterprise applications. MIS students complete courses in both Business and Computing Software Systems (CSS). Learn more about the MIS concentration .
Learn to develop and implement coordinated marketing programs to successfully manage a company&#8217;s relationship with its target customers in order to meet its strategic goals in a competitive environment. Graduates go on to work in brand management, sales, marketing research and consulting, and entrepreneurial ventures. Learn more about the Marketing concentration .
Learn to develop and implement coordinated marketing programs to successfully manage a company&#8217;s relationship with its target customers in order to meet its strategic goals in a competitive environment. Graduates go on to work in brand management, sales, marketing research and consulting, and entrepreneurial ventures. Learn more about the Marketing option .
Learn to innovate in data-driven, tech-focused industries.
Library
Likelihood of success in the degree program
Macroeconomics
Macroeconomics: Fulfilled by the macroeconomics prerequisite
Management
Management Concentration
Management Consulting
Management Information Systems (MIS)
Management Information Systems (MIS) Concentration
Managerial Accounting
Managing Organizational Effectiveness
Managing Organizational Effectiveness (4)
Many graduates also continue into advanced study, including the UW Bothell MBA.
Maps & directions
Marketing
Marketing can also be taken as a concentration .
Marketing Intelligence
Marketing Management
Marketing Management (4)
Marketing manager, brand strategist, or sales lead
Marketing Option and Concentration
Master Advanced Accounting with a Flexible, Applied Program
Master of Business Administration
Master of Science in Accounting
MATH 112, 124, 125, 126, 134, or 145
MATH 112, or 124, or 125, or 126, or 134, or 145, or
MATH 390, or Q SCI 381, or IND E 315
MATH 390, Q SCI 381, or IND E 315
MATH& 146 or
MATH& 148 or MATH&151
MATH&148 or MATH& 151
Mathematics: Fulfilled by the calculus prerequisite
MBA Elective Courses
Mentors
Mentorship EDGE
Mentorship EDGE Mentors
Microeconomics
Microeconomics for Business
Microeconomics for Business (4)
Microeconomics: Fulfilled by the microeconomics prerequisite
Minimum academic performance requirements*
Minimum University requirements
Minor in Actuarial Science
Minor in Business Administration
Minor in Economics
Minor in Retail Management
More Links
MS Accounting Advisory Board
MSA Faculty
Must have completed all required prerequisite Accounting courses with a minimum grade of 2.5 in each course.
Must have earned a minimum 3.0 cumulative grade point average across all prerequisite Accounting courses.
MyUW
Natural Sciences: 15 credits and must include
Negotiations
New Product Marketing
News
Note: schedule subject to change.
Note: UW Tacoma and UW Seattle may have different admission requirements.
One additional course (i.e., psychology, sociology, or anthropology)
Open mobile menu
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Operations and Supply Chain Management (4)
Opportunities
Option Courses
Options
Other factors that you would like the Admissions Committee to consider (i.e., academic or personal challenges).
Our curriculum and approach blends business fundamentals with practical, applied learning. You will:
People
Personal statement , demonstrating the relationship between academic opportunities and the candidate&#8217;s professional career goals
PharmD-MBA Program
Please submit all materials to UW Bothell&#8217;s Admissions Office. The following items should be submitted by the application deadline:
Policies & Petitions
Pre-Fall
Prepare a personal statement (no more than two pages double-spaced) that addresses each of the following:
Prepare to lead, innovate, and create impact in today&#8217;s dynamic business world. In the School of Business at the University of Washington Bothell, the Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration prepares you to think strategically, act ethically, and drive results in any industry. Through small classes, close mentorship, and connections to the Puget Sound business community, you will gain the confidence, knowledge, and experience to launch a meaningful career.
Prepares students for careers in operations, logistics, purchasing and distribution. Students learn about the production, shipment and distribution of products, understanding sales, inventory and other crucial aspects of businesses. Learn more about the Supply Chain Management option .
Prerequisite Course Requirements
Prerequisite Courses
Prerequisite GPA of 3.0
Prerequisites
Prerequisites - School of Business
Prerequisites for matriculation
Previous academic performance (cumulative and business prerequisite GPA)
Privacy
Professional Coaching
Program Snapshot
Project Management
Promotion and Tenure Guidelines
Provide one unofficial transcript from each college or university you have attended with your application.
Provides a general manager&#8217;s perspective on the management of innovation. Focuses on conceptual frameworks and analytical tools for managing innovation throughout the firm. Topics include the nature of innovation, how organizational and technical capabilities affect innovation, product/process development systems, and technology implementation.
Provides an advanced overview of leadership theory and practice and helps students understand and develop their own leadership potential. Relies on a variety of approaches including readings, cases, simulations, guest speakers, activities, discussion, assessments, lectures, and reflection.
Provides an introduction to the models used in the investment and financing decisions of a firm. Topics include: valuation of stocks and bonds; measurement of risk and return; project evaluation and analysis; financial leverage and optimal capital structure, and optimal dividend policy.
Provides an introduction to the strategic role of the human resource function within modern organizations; examines human resource management practices associated with individual and organizational effectiveness, employee satisfaction, and motivation; and develops an understanding of how general managers can apply these concepts in managing people within their organizations.
Provides knowledge and insights to construct, implement, and evaluate digital marketing strategies based on data-driven analysis. Explores topics including search engine optimization, search advertising, display advertising, web analytics, social media marketing, and mobile marketing.
PSYCH 315, 317, or 318
PSYCH 315, or 317, or 318
Q METH 201
Q METH 201, or
Q SCI 291
Qualifying English proficiency scores (if needed) on the SAT/ACT, TOEFL/IELTS or WSA
Questions?
Questions? Contact Us
Quick Links
Read, interpret, and analyze company financial reports. Understand the procedural aspects of the preparation of financial statements. Acquire a working knowledge of generally accepted accounting principles and financial reporting standards. Understand the ambiguities that arise in preparing financial statements and the role of good business judgment in resolving these ambiguities.
Ready to design your MBA path?
Reasoning: Fulfilled by the statistics prerequisite
Related Links
Request Information
Required Accounting Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Required Capstone Courses
REQUIRED COURSES
Required Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Required Electives
Required Entrepreneurship Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Requirements to declare the option
Requirements to declare the Option or the Concentration
Requires two of the following courses:
Retail Management
Retail Management Concentration
Reviews descriptive statistics, exploratory data, and probability distributions. Studies the theory and methods of statistical inference, emphasizing those applications most useful in modeling business problems. Topics include sampling theory, estimation, hypothesis testing, linear regression, analysis of variance, and several advanced applications of the general linear model.
Ron Tilden Accounting Scholarship
Rules Docket
Sample Program Schedule
Schedule : Full-time or part-time available, M/W or T/TH evenings and Saturdays (electives)
Scholarships
School of Business
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
See full Admissions Requirements
Select Electives
Self-Directed
Seminar on Financial Accounting (4 credits)
Seminar on Global Economic Issues
Seminar on Strategic Cost Accounting
Seminar on Strategic Cost Accounting (4 credits)
Signup for Email Updates
Skip To Content
Small classes, big impact. Learn in a collaborative environment where faculty know you by name.
Social Sciences: 20 credits and must include
Special Core Courses
Special Electives
Specializations
Specialized study that appears on your transcript.
Spring
Staff
Start : Any quarter (Autumn, Winter, Spring, Summer)
STAT 220, 221 (221 prior to A&#8217;17), 311, or 390
STAT 220, or 221 (221 prior to A’17), or 311, or 390, or
Statistics
Statistics for Business
Statistics for Business (4)
STMATH 113 & 114, 124, 125, or 126, or
STMATH 114, 124, 125, or 126, or
Strategic Management Capstone
Strategic Management Capstone (4)
Strengthen your ability to communicate and collaborate
Students are also required to complete 20 credits of Accounting electives. Electives can be arranged across quarters as desired.
Students in the Entrepreneurship concentration must complete the following courses for graduation.
Students in the Finance Option or Concentration must complete the courses below to be eligible for graduation.
Students may NOT enroll in any Accounting courses until speaking to their advisor to determine whether they meet the requirements.
Students wanting to declare the Accounting option must meet the following requirements:
Students wanting to declare the Finance Option are required to have taken B BUS 350 with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Students may apply for a waiver of this minimum GPA requirement if they earn a minimum GPA of 3.0 across all other Finance Option required courses. Students must have completed BBUS 350 – Business Finance, to declare the Finance concentration.
Study abroad tour that cultivates a rich understanding of business theory and a genuine global perspective. Develops an appreciation of national difference in culture and economic, legal, and political systems that affect business strategy, operations, and performance.
Subscribe to Notifications
Summer
Supply Chain Management
Supply Chain Management Option
Support every step. Benefit from advising, faculty mentorship, and resources designed to help you succeed.
Sustainability
Synthesizes and extends perspective on global business environment. Demonstrates how choices related to organization and strategy (such as outsourcing and diversification) require an understanding of trade theory and policy, differences in national cultures, and international institutions.
Tacoma Campus
Take the Next Step
Targeted study plus a wealth of electives.
Technology / Leadership Electives
Technology & Innovation Management (TIM)
Technology & Innovation Management (TIM) Concentration
Technology and Innovation Management
Technology and Innovation Management (TIM)
Technology manager, data analyst, or digital transformation specialist
Technology MBA
Terms
The Accounting Option prepares students for careers in private, government, non-profit and public accounting. Demand for accountants is extremely high as businesses work to plan, manage and control their operations. Graduates can serve as internal auditors, managerial accountants, tax examiners, budget analysts or government auditors. After completing this option, students are eligible to take the Certified Management Accounting (CMA) exam. If you want to be a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), a minimum of 225 quarter hours or five years of college is required.
The Entrepreneurship Concentration prepares students to start their own companies, whether they be tech startups, local shops, or professional services. Students learn by developing actual startup ideas on real startup teams. They spot new business opportunities and create value propositions, which align products or services with customer needs. And they develop strategies and business models for their startups. The concentration prepares students (if interested) to compete in UW&#8217;s Dempsey Startup Competition or to apply to the Buerk Accelerator Program .
The Entrepreneurship Concentration provides highly motivated students with the knowledge and practice needed to start and manage new businesses. Four exciting courses integrate research based conceptual models and tools with hands-on practical experience in the form of historical and live cases, idea competition and live business plan competitions. Learn more about the Entrepreneurship concentration .
The Finance Option allows students acquire knowledge about how firms make financial decisions and how these decisions affect individual organizations and society as a whole. Students also learn how firms acquire and allocate funds; how financial markets operate and the role these markets play in economic welfare. The study of finance includes the use of models to develop analytical approaches to problems. Students are trained to take positions in financial institutions such as commercial and investment banks, in finance departments of major corporations or with consulting firms.
The Leadership and Strategic Innovation (LSI) option will engage students in a rigorous study of leadership, strategy, and innovation. You will graduate ready to lead teams, manage innovation and inspire employees. LSI graduates can go on to become project leads, managers, consultants, business development leads, HR analysts, market analysts, sales managers, entrepreneurs and much more. Learn more about the Leadership & Strategic Innovation (LSI) option .
The Power of a UW Degree
The Retail Management concentration provides students with a solid foundation of theory important to the retail management discipline. Specifically, students will acquire an interdisciplinary knowledge of merchandise acquisition, strategic retail promotion, retail operations and supply chain management. They will also gain an understanding of cutting edge uses of technology in retail management and gain the mindset necessary to find and apply new applications for technologies in the retail context as these new technologies emerge. Students will have the opportunity to apply their learning through real world class projects, and gain experience and exposure to the retail industry through strategic partnerships with important retailers in the area. Engagement with this key industry through the Retail Management Concentration provides numerous opportunities for students and helps to prepare them to become leaders in the retail industry. Learn more about the Retail Management concentration .
The Self-Directed Concentration allows students to create their own interdisciplinary concentration. The new Concentration combines four upper-division (i.e., 300-400-level) courses from two (or more) academic areas into a new area of study that does not already exist in the School of Business or UW Bothell. A Self-Directed Concentration may be a good choice for students creating their own career niche or wavering between two existing concentrations/options. The Self-Directed Concentration is NOT meant to allow students to pick and choose a handful of classes without developing a clear goal. Students interested in the Self-Directed Concentration should make an appointment with their Academic Advisor to find out about the declaration and approval process.
The two-year Accounting Option prepares students for careers in private, government, and non-profit and public accounting. Graduates can serve as internal auditors, managerial accountants, tax examiners, budget analysts or government auditors. After completing this option, students are eligible to take the Certified Management Accounting (CMA) exam. If you want to be a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), a minimum of 225 quarter hours or five years of college is required. Learn more about the Accounting option .
The UW Bothell School of Business MBA Program blends rigorous academics with real-world experiences, preparing you to lead in any business environment. Learn from award-winning faculty, collaborate with peers, and apply your skills to real local and global challenges.
There are three entry points into the B.S. in Economics major. These include students transferring from another institution, students directly admitted into the major from high school, and UWB pre-majors. Regardless of how you enter the B.S. in Economics major, the requirements are the same. The table below outlines the five prerequisite courses and their most common equivalents.
This course is designed to introduce students to concepts, methods and tools of project management. Students will be exposed to topics such as exploring the processes of selecting and defining the project, planning the project, leading the project team, monitoring and controlling the execution of the project, and closing and evaluating the project.
TIM helps students understand the nature of innovation, the relationship between strategic leadership and innovation, and how organizations use technology and new product development processes to successfully manage change. After graduation, students apply their knowledge in industries such as engineering, computing, telecommunications and biotechnology. Learn more about the TIM concentration .
Time Schedule
Total Credits
Total Credits: 52 (32 core, 20 electives)
Transfer students begin at the junior level.
Transfer, International and Returning students: complete one application to both UW Bothell and the School of Business B.A. in Business Administration Major.
Tuition & Financial Aid
Tuition and Financial Aid
Two additional courses (i.e., biology or chemistry)
ugbiz@uw.edu
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
UW BOTHELL
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UW IN SEATTLE
UW SEATTLE
uwbbusiness@uw.edu
uwbmba@uw.edu
uwbmsa@uw.edu
Vision, Mission & Values
Visit our Campus
Visitors
What to Expect
Why Choose Business at UW Bothell
Why hire a business student?
Why study accounting?
Why study Entrepreneurship?
Why study finance?
Winter
Workday Login
Writing: 15 credits, which must include English composition and advanced composition. Students still requiring 5 additional credits upon admissions may complete this requirement with BBUS 307, Business Writing.
Year One
Year Two
Your ability to contribute to the educational experience of other students.
Your MBA Journey Starts Here
Your preparation and motivation to pursue upper-division studies in business.
