Owner: uw-bothell-educational-studies-elementary-education
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/education/undergraduate/elementary-education/degree-requirements
Title: Degree Requirements - School of Educational Studies

[Supplemental official source] Admissions
[Supplemental official source] Degree Completion Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Degree Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Program Requirements
* DURING QUARTER
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
10
10 credits &#8211; Capstone Sequence
10 credits &#8211; Writing Across the Curriculum (W)
10 credits of core courses for those seeking an M.Ed. along with their certification
100
11am &#8211; 1pm
11am &#8211; 3pm
14 credits &#8211; Student Teaching
15 credits &#8211; Arts & Humanities (A&H)
15 credits &#8211; ESOL or Special Education Endorsement
15 credits &#8211; Natural Sciences (NSc)
15 credits &#8211; Social Sciences (SSc)
15 credits from list &#8211; Electives
18 credits &#8211; Teaching Foundations Courses
18115 Campus Way NE
1pm – 4pm
1pm &#8211; 3pm, remote
1pm &#8211; 4pm
2
2.00 cumulative GPA
20 credits &#8211; Educational Studies Core Courses
25 credits &#8211; Educational Studies (B EDUC-prefix) concentration area electives
25 credits &#8211; Other Department concentration area electives
25 credits &#8211; School of Educational Studies Core Courses
27 credits of Residency Principal and Administrator certification coursework:
28 credits &#8211; Teaching Methods
3
35 credits &#8211; Developmental & Youth Studies Foundation Courses
3pm &#8211; 5pm
4
4 credits &#8211; Theory to Practice Courses
40
425.352.5000
425.352.5411
5
5 credits &#8211; Composition (C)
5 credits &#8211; Diversity (DIV)
5 credits &#8211; Reasoning (RSN)
50 credits of electives in a concentration area
540 hours for principals and 360 hours for program administrators
5pm &#8211; 7pm
5pm &#8211; 7pm, online
6
60
8
80
8am – 11am
8am – 12pm
8am &#8211; 4pm
9am &#8211; 11am
9am &#8211; 11am, online
9am &#8211; 12pm
9pm &#8211; 12pm
A single agency or organizational setting may be used to complete Applied Experience hours required for multiple courses (including B EDUC 495) that the student is enrolled in during the same academic quarter.
A student may not request compensation from their employer for any hours they spent conducting an applied experience for BEDUC 495.
About
Academic Advising
Accepted basic skills tests:
Accessibility
ACT Reading, Math, & Writing sections
Additional information on NES
Additional information on WEST-B
Additional Requirements
Admissions
Admissions - School of Educational Studies
Admissions Essays (300-400 words each):
Admissions Requirements
Adolescent development
Advisory Boards
After-school programs (YMCA, Boys & Girls Club)
All students in the Developmental & Youth Studies major enroll in a two-course capstone sequence:
All students in the Educational Studies major enroll in a three-course capstone sequence:
All UW Bothell
Alternating Blocks of Student Teaching & Coursework
Alternative educational settings such as home-school networks, juvenile detention, or social service agencies
Alumni
Analyze contextual factors and impacts on individuals, including family, school, community, and digital, as well as how diverse individuals frame their own identities in these spaces
Analyze human growth and development processes:
Any hours completed prior to the start of the quarter enrolled in Applied Experience do not count toward the total hours needed
Application Components
Application Deadline: to be announced in spring 2026.
Application Deadlines
Application Information & Resources
Applied Art
Applied Experience Guidelines & Policies
Applied Experience Guidelines and Policies
Applied Experience hours cannot be completed as part of any time spent working in a paid job.
Applied Experience hours completed to earn academic credit for B EDUC 495 cannot be used for applied experience (or service learning) hours for another academic course. Nor can Applied Experience (or service learning) hours completed to earn academic credit for another academic course be used or counted for B EDUC 495 Applied Experience hours
Applied Experience hours need to be completed within the quarter dates of enrollment.
Apply
Apply As Undergraduate
Approved background checks are required before a teacher candidate can apply for their Pre-Residency Clearance, a pre-certification legally required for student teaching.
As outlined by the State of Washington Professional Educator Standards Board , Washington state elementary school teachers must be certified to teach and must hold an elementary education endorsement. To be eligible for the elementary endorsement, students must complete college-level coursework which demonstrates their knowledge and understanding of the subject areas elementary school teachers cover in their classrooms: Social Studies, English Language Arts, Mathematics, Science and Art.
Autumn
Autumn &#8211; Year 1
Autumn &#8211; Year 2
B BIO 310 Brain and Behavior
B BUS 300 Organizational Behavior, Ethics, & Inclusivity
B BUS 401 Work, Motivation & Performance
B BUS 402 Managing Work Teams
B EDUC 170 Math for Elementary Educators
B EDUC 201 Special Topics in Diversity & Education
B EDUC 205 Education & Equity in the United States
B EDUC 205 Education & Equity in the United States (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 210 Teaching & Learning in a Multicultural Society
B EDUC 210 Teaching & Learning in a Multicultural Society (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 220 Education and Society
B EDUC 220 Education and Society (SSc)
B EDUC 230 Culture Knowledge and Education (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 230 Culture, Knowledge, and Education
B EDUC 250 Topics in Education & Popular Culture: Adolescent Literacy, Graphic Novels, and Young Adult Fiction (A&H)
B EDUC 250 Topics in Education & Popular Culture: Banned Books & Controversial Topics in Children’s Literature & Young Adult Fiction (A&H)
B EDUC 250 Topics in Education and Popular Culture (A&H)
B EDUC 250 Topics in Education and Popular Culture (may be taken twice if different topics)
B EDUC 255 Critical Diversity Studies
B EDUC 255 Critical Diversity Studies (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 295 Gathering, Analyzing, and Using Data in Education
B EDUC 295 Gathering, Analyzing, and Using Data in Education (DIV, RSN)
B EDUC 300 Research & Educational Knowledge
B EDUC 300 Research & Educational Knowledge (W)
B EDUC 310 Theories of Learning, Culture & Identity
B EDUC 310 Theories of Learning, Culture & Identity (SSc)
B EDUC 315 History of Education in the United States
B EDUC 328 Diversity Leadership Engagement
B EDUC 328 Diversity, Leadership, and Engagement (DIV)
B EDUC 330 Race, Culture, and Identity in the Classroom
B EDUC 340 STEAM
B EDUC 340 STEAM Education (3 credits)
B EDUC 391 Special Topics in Education
B EDUC 392 Independent Study (requires faculty supervisor )
B EDUC 399 Capstone Seminar
B EDUC 399 Capstone Seminar (3 credits)
B EDUC 402
B EDUC 402 Human Growth & Learning (5 credits)
B EDUC 402 Human Growth and Learning
B EDUC 402 Human Growth and Learning (SSc)
B EDUC 403
B EDUC 403 Introduction to Special Education
B EDUC 403 Introduction to Special Education (5 credits)
B EDUC 406 Introduction to Field Placement &#8211; held late August through September (2 credits)
B EDUC 408 Knowing, Teaching, and Assessing in Multicultural Education & Social Studies (5 credits)
B EDUC 408*
B EDUC 409
B EDUC 409 Knowing, Teaching, and Assessing in Reading, Writing, & Communication I (3 credits)
B EDUC 410 Knowing, Teaching, and Assessing in Reading, Writing, & Communication II (4 credits)
B EDUC 410*
B EDUC 418 Knowing, Teaching, and Assessing in Intermediate Level Mathematics II (4 credits)
B EDUC 418*
B EDUC 419
B EDUC 419 Knowing, Teaching, and Assessing in Mathematics I (3 credits)
B EDUC 421
B EDUC 421 Knowing, Teaching, and Assessing in Earth, Physical, and Life Sciences (4 credits)
B EDUC 423
B​ EDUC 423 Knowing, Teaching & Assessing in Health, Fitness, and Issues of Abuse
B EDUC 423 Knowing, Teaching, and Assessing in Health, Fitness & Issues of Abuse (3 credits)
B EDUC 425
B EDUC 425 Professional Educator Seminar (2 credits) &#8211; Taken Spring and Winter quarters
B EDUC 435 Student Teaching &#8211; Autumn Quarter: Monday through Friday in school placement for full teacher-contracted hours; methods classes and student teaching held on alternating weeks (2 credits)
B EDUC 435 Student Teaching &#8211; Winter Quarter: Monday through Friday in school placement for full teacher-contracted hours (10 credits)
B EDUC 435 Student Teaching, Autumn Quarter, $325
B EDUC 435 Student Teaching, Winter Quarter, $325
B EDUC 438
B EDUC 438 Teaching & Learning Tribal Sovereignty
B EDUC 438 Teaching & Learning Tribal Sovereignty (5 credits)
B EDUC 438 Teaching & Learning Tribal Sovereignty (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 441
B ​EDUC 441 Second Language Acquisition, Bilingual Education and the Structure of English
B EDUC 441 Second Language Acquisition, Bilingual Education, and the Structure of English (5 credits)
B EDUC 441 Second Language Acquisition, Bilingual Education, and the Structure of English (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 442 Curriculum, Instruction & Assessment in ESOL (5 credits)
B EDUC 443
B EDUC 443 Practicum in ESOL (5 credits)
B EDUC 444
B EDUC 444 Leadership, Advocacy, & Assessment in ESOL (5 credits)
B EDUC 451 Early Childhood Development
B EDUC 451 Early Childhood Development (SSc)
B EDUC 453 Children in Schools & Society
B EDUC 453 Children in Schools and Society (DIV, SSc)
B ​EDUC 456 Adolescents in School and Society
B EDUC 456 Adolescents in Schools and Society (SSc)
B EDUC 458 Emerging Adulthood
B EDUC 458 Emerging Adulthood (SSc)
B EDUC 460 Moral Dimensions of Education
B EDUC 461 Educational Implications of Gender Inequality
B EDUC 461 Educational Implications of Gender Inequality (DIV)
B ​EDUC 470 Disability Culture
B EDUC 470 Disability Culture
B EDUC 470 Disability Culture in Schools and Society (DIV, SSc)
B ​EDUC 480 Life and Learning in the Middle School
B EDUC 481 Adolescent Development
B EDUC 481 Adolescent Development (SSc)
B EDUC 482 Assessment in Special & Inclusive Education (5 credits)
B EDUC 483
B EDUC 483 Planning for Student Success in an Inclusive Classroom (5 credits)
B EDUC 484
B EDUC 484 Inclusive Teaching and Instruction Practices (5 credits)
B EDUC 491 Special Topics in Education
B ​EDUC 491 Special Topics in Education
B EDUC 495 Applied Experience
B EDUC 495 Applied Experience (5 credits)
B EDUC 495 Applied Experience is designed to:
B EDUC 498 Educational Studies Research
B EDUC 499 Capstone Project
B EDUC 499 Capstone Project (2 credits)
B EDUC 499 Capstone Project (5 credits)
B EDUC 500 Foundations of Critical Race Theory in Higher Education
B EDUC 500 Foundations of Critical Race Theory in Higher Education: Provides an overview of E-CRiT as applied within education-related fields, including a focus on historical origins, aligned movements, key tenets, and applications across K-20.
B EDUC 501 Inquiry in Education
B EDUC 501 Inquiry in Education: Introduces tools for looking closely at classrooms and professional practice. Explores a professional question through gathering information, collegial discussion with their peers, and readings that offer multiple perspectives.
B EDUC 502 Identity and Reflective Practice
B EDUC 502 Identity and Reflective Practice: Examines key concepts related to identity, reflection, and reflective practice. Supports autoethnographic and reflective writing to foster understanding of personal identity and examination of social, cultural, political and economic forces that influence educational philosophy, practice, and ethics.
B EDUC 504 Enacting Agency for Social Justice
B EDUC 504 Enacting Agency for Social Justice: Focuses on building a social justice ethos through practice, examining a variety of models and methods embodying social justice principles within educational settings. Develops a knowledge base of practices for social justice education, including: multicultural group processing, anti-oppressive organizing, and effective dialogue strategies across difference.
B EDUC 512 Social Justice Education: Oppression, Resistance, and Liberation
B EDUC 512 Social Justice Education: Oppression, Resistance, and Liberation: Surveys the roots and manifestations of social injustices in communities and society, with a particular lens on how education has perpetuated these injustices. Builds an understanding of the complex matrices of injustice, examining the creative and subversive acts of communities to leverage education as a tool of resistance and liberation.
B EDUC 515 Racism in Higher Education
B EDUC 515 Racism in Higher Education: Examines the roots of white supremacy and racism in higher education, while exploring the role of higher education in normalizing local and global oppressive structures across social, political, and economic systems.
B EDUC 520 Current Issues in Higher Education
B EDUC 520 Current Issues in Higher Education: This course applies an E-CRiT lens to examine contemporary issues in higher education, with a particular focus on intersectionality and interest convergence within local higher education systems.
B EDUC 525 Applied CRT as Systems Change
B EDUC 525 Applied CRT as Systems Change: Course focuses on the application of E-CRiT as a lever for implementing systems change efforts across higher education. Students elevate applied systems change projects within chosen higher education institutions
B EDUC 529 Community-Based Fieldwork
B EDUC 529 Community-Based Fieldwork (2 credits): This course is designed for educators committed to building and enhancing equitable collaborations with minoritized youth and communities in advancing educational justice. Offering a critique of the deficit perspectives underlying traditional approaches to community partnerships, this course situates youth and community voices, experiential knowledge, and agency as central to advancing enduring, justice-centered collaborations.
B EDUC 529 Community-Based Fieldwork: Designed for educators committed to building and enhancing equitable collaborations with minoritized youth and communities in advancing educational justice. Offering a critique of the deficit perspectives underlying traditional approaches to community partnerships, this course situates youth and community voices, experiential knowledge, and agency as central to advancing enduring, justice-centered collaborations.
B EDUC 541 Second Language Acquisition, Bilingual Education, and Structure of English: An ESOL foundations course on theories, models, and concepts in the areas of first and second language acquisition, bilingualism and bilingual education, and features of English as the academic language. A minimum of 20 hours of community-engaged learning is required for students who are not currently teaching.
B EDUC 541 Second Language Acquisition, Bilingual Education, and the Structure of English
B EDUC 542 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment in ESOL
B EDUC 542 Curriculum, Instruction, and Assessment in ESOL: An ESOL teaching methods course on planning, instruction, and assessment informed by the WIDA English Language Development standards and Sheltered Instruction Observation Protocol (SIOP) model. Students will also learn teaching strategies such as backward design and GLAD and implement them during their general education student teaching. A minimum of 20 hours of community-engaged learning is required for students who are not currently teaching.
B EDUC 543 Practicum for Teaching English Speakers of Other Languages
B EDUC 543 Practicum for Teaching English Speakers of Other Languages: A teaching practicum course during which students will learn to plan, teach, and assess multilingual learners at a local public elementary or middle school under the supervision of a site-based cooperating teacher and a SES field supervisor. Students will also attend seminars at UWB, and complete course assignments related to their practicum experience. Please see more information about the practicum course in the Practicum Experience Requirement section .
B EDUC 544 Leadership, Advocacy, and Program Assessment in ESOL
B EDUC 544 Leadership, Advocacy, and Program Assessment: An ESOL foundations course that prepares students with the knowledge and skills to serve as effective resources, advocates, and change agents for bilingual students, families, and communities. Course topics include, for example, relevant historical and current legal and social issues concerning the education of multilingual learners; features, benefits, and challenges of various models of educating multilingual learners; processes of identifying for and exiting from ESOL programs; ways of engaging multilingual families, assessing the effectiveness of programs for multilingual learners, etc.
B EDUC 550 Critical Pedagogy
B EDUC 550 Critical Pedagogy: Focuses on critical inquiry into contemporary beliefs about knowledge, learning, and teaching by exploring how educational systems are manifestations of culture and politics. Introduces progressive pedagogies that challenge dominant cultural paradigms and are models for transformational educational change.
B EDUC 580 Critical Policy
B EDUC 580 Critical Policy in Education: Explores policies shaping K12 education as influenced by major institutional complexes, including various levels of government organizations.
B EDUC 594 Dossier
B EDUC XXX Elective
B HLTH 196 Preparing to Work in Partnerships with Communities
B HLTH 200 Lifespan Development
B HLTH 428 Adolescent Health
B HLTH 435 Foundations & Principles of Health Education & Communication
B HLTH 435 Foundations and Principles of Health Education Communication (SSc)
B HLTH 437 Program Planning & Strategies for Health Promotion
B HLTH 438 Program Evaluation for Health Education & Promotion
B HLTH 439 Health Policy & Advocacy
B WRIT 133 Composition Stretch II (C)
B WRIT 134 Composition (C)
B-Term 2pm &#8211; 5pm
Bachelor&#8217;s degree from an accredited institution
Background Checks
Background Checks Notice
Basic Skills test scores are a state-mandated admissions requirement
be a hands-on, community-based learning and professional-development experience
Become a Teacher
Begins late August
Begins Late August
BIS 115 Digital Cultures
BIS 164 Introduction to World Literature (A&H, DIV)
BIS 206 Engaging Literary Arts (A&H)
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics
BIS 219 Politics of Sex Education
BIS 219 Politics of Sex Education (SSc)
BIS 220 Developmental Psychology
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality (DIV, SSc)
BIS 224 Feminist Studies
BIS 225 Social Psychology
BIS 225 Social Psychology (SSc)
BIS 226 Foundations of Social Services
BIS 227 Rad Women in the Global South (DIV, SSc)
BIS 227 Radical Women in the Global South
BIS 235 Critical Media Literacy
BIS 235 Critical Media Literacy (SSc)
BIS 237 Public Speaking and Communication
BIS 238 Language, Identity, Culture, and Power
BIS 244 Wetlands Discovery
BIS 256 Introduction to African American Studies
BIS 257 Introduction to Asian American Studies
BIS 258 Introduction to United States Latina/Latino Studies
BIS 301 Narrative Forms (A&H)
BIS 302 Issues in Mathematics across Cultures
BIS 310 Women, Culture, & Development
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research
BIS 317 Language, Society, and Cultural Knowledge
BIS 326 Race, Space, and Segregation
BIS 329 Topics in Mathematics across the Curriculum
BIS 335 Human Rights in America
BIS 353 Human Rights in Theory & Practice
BIS 361 Studies in American Literature (A&H)
BIS 364 Public Memory & Dissent in American Culture
BIS 364 Realities & Representations of Adolescent Development
BIS 365 Institutions & Social Change
BIS 365 Institutions and Social Change (SSc)
BIS 366 The Family in US Society
BIS 366 The Family in US Society (SSc)
BIS 367 Ethics & Society
BIS 369 Indigenous Psychology & Health (DIV)
BIS 370 Nineteenth-Century American Literature (A&H)
BIS 371 Twentieth-Century American Literature (A&H)
BIS 377 British Literature and the Gothic Novel (A&H)
BIS 379 American Ethnic Literatures (A&H, SSc, DIV)
BIS 387 Women and American Literature (A&H)
BIS 388 Literature in Translation (A&H)
BIS 389 American Indian Literature (A&H, SSc)
BIS 403 Washington D.C. Seminar on Human Rights
BIS 405 Environmental Education
BIS 405 Environmental Education (NSc)
BIS 407 Children’s Literature and Reader Response Criticism
BIS 407 Children’s Literature and Reader Response Criticism (A&H)
BIS 410 Topics in Quantitative Inquiry
BIS 414 Topics in Human Rights
BIS 415 Public Policy & Law
BIS 418 Global Scholars: Global Citizenship in Context (must be in Global Scholars program)
BIS 433 Gender, Work, & Family
BIS 443 Educational Policy & the American Economy
BIS 445 Meanings & Reality of Inequality
BIS 448 Social Policy
BIS 450 Decolonizing Psychology
BIS 450 Decolonizing Psychology (SSc)
BIS 455 Literature & Sexuality (A&H, SSc)
BIS 466 Human Rights & Resistance
BIS 481 Modernism, Postmodernism, and American Literature (A&H)
BIS 483 Community Organizing
BIS 483 Community Organizing (SSc)
BIS 486 Studies in Women and Literature (A&H)
BIS 487 Topics in American Literature (A&H)
BISAES 305 Power, Dissent, & American Culture
BISAES 367 Exploring American Culture: Race, Ethnicity, Immigration
BISGWS 302 Histories & Movements of Gender & Sexuality
BISIA 484 Arts Learning in the Community
BISLEP 302 Policy Analysis
BISPSY 337 Risk & Resilience
BISPSY 337 Risk & Resilience (SSc)
BISPSY 343 Community Psychology
BISPSY 343 Community Psychology (SSc)
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology (SSc)
BISPSY 350 Intergroup Relations (SSc)
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358531
BST 205 Women in STEM Seminar: College Life
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone Sequence
Career Pathways & Academic Connections
Career Services
CECL Concentration Information
Certification & M.Ed. Core Course
Certification Course
Certification Courses
Certification Only (27 credits)
Certification with M.Ed. (37 credits)
Child & Youth Development Minor
Close mobile menu
Community-Based Fieldwork
Community-Engaged Learning & Research
Commuter Services
Complete all other program and course requirements
Complete and submit a Professional Growth Plan
Completion Dossier
Concentration Area Electives
Concentration Course
Concentration Courses
Connect with an Admissions Counselor
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Content Course Requirement
Content Test Requirement
Core Area Courses
Core Courses
Course Fees
Course fees:
Course Sequence & Schedule
Coursework Requirements
Credits
Critical reflection and applied learning
CSS 211 Computers and Society
CSS 295 K-12 Computing Education
CSS 305 Survey of Computer Systems for Teachers
Current site
Curriculum, Instruction & Equity Concentration
Deadlines:
Degree Completion Requirements
Degree Completion Requirements - School of Educational Studies
Degree Requirements
Degree Requirements - School of Educational Studies
Describe your lived experience related to diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI). Reflect on your stance toward learning more about how to implement DEI in your future classroom.
Develop connections between developmental theories, concepts, and perspectives on developmental processes
Developmental & Youth Studies
Developmental & Youth Studies majors are expected to participate in learning experiences in community-based settings to gain valuable insight into possible roles and career opportunities in education-related fields. To accomplish this, the Developmental & Youth Studies major requires the completion of an applied learning experience, B EDUC 495 Applied Experience.
Developmental & Youth Studies majors build a portfolio which encourages them to reflect on School of Educational Studies Core Themes and make connections between what they have learned in their coursework and accomplished in Applied Experience. Students begin their capstone by applying what they have learned in their coursework in an Applied Experience placement, and complete their portfolio in B EDUC 499.
Developmental & Youth Studies majors must complete all university and major requirements listed below.
Directory
Diversity Studies Minor
Dual Endorsement Courses &#8211; Optional Additional Quarter
Dual Endorsement Options
E-CRiT Concentration Information
Each course is 2 credits.
Each course is 5 credits, unless indicated otherwise. These courses are all required to earn the Residency Principal or Program Administrator certificate.
Each course is 5 credits.
Each course is 5 credits. Students seeking an M.Ed. in addition to the Residency Principal or Program Administrator certificate will complete these courses.
Each course is 5 credits. These courses focus on the examination of research methodologies and the generation of research questions.
Early childhood
Earn 180 university credits
edleader@uw.edu
Education & Society Minor
Education Studies: Elementary Education Option
Educational Advocacy & Community Engagement Minor
Educational Leadership, Policy & Social Justice Concentration
Educational research projects
Educational Studies
Educational Studies (B EDUC) Electives (25 credits)
Educational Studies majors are expected to participate in learning experiences in community-based settings to gain valuable insight into possible roles and career opportunities in education-related fields. To accomplish this, the Educational Studies major requires the completion of an applied learning experience, B EDUC 495 Applied Experience.
Educational Studies majors build a portfolio which encourages them to reflect on Educational Studies Core Themes and make connections between what they have learned in their coursework and accomplished in Applied Experience. Students begin their reflection in B EDUC 399 Capstone Seminar, then apply what they have learned in their coursework in an Applied Experience placement, and complete their portfolio in B EDUC 499.
Educational Studies majors must complete all university and major requirements listed below.
Educational Studies majors must select a concentration and complete 25 credits of Educational Studies (B EDUC) concentration area electives and 25 credits of Other Department concentration area electives.
Elective Course
Elementary Education Academic Breadth Subject Areas & Courses
Elementary Education Course Fees
Elementary Education Endorsement Academic Breadth Requirements
Elementary Education Teacher Certification Post-Baccalaureate
Employment Opportunities
encourage self-reflection on the challenges and opportunities of education in diverse settings
English Language Arts: Composition or Writing
English Language Arts: Literature
Enhancing Capacity for Special Education Leadership (ECSEL)
Enrollment verification forms for in progress courses
ESOL candidates are required to complete a minimum of 100 hours practicum in an ESOL classroom, mentored by a practicing teacher.
ESOL Concentration Information
ESOL Student Teaching
Examine critical perspectives on theories and concepts of child and adolescent development
Exception: Applied Experience hours may be completed in the same organizational setting where the student is employed, but the student must delineate, in writing:
Expand Navigation
Experimental teaching in STEM or other professional fields
Explore diverse cultural perspectives on human development
Facebook
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & Staff
For Application Questions - Contact Undergraduate Admissions
For students admitted to the UW prior to Autumn 2023 the DIV requirement is 3 credits
Free WEST-B practice tests & preparation materials
Frequently Asked Questions
FRIDAY
Full-Time Course Plan (4 Quarters)
Funding Resources for Graduate Students
Funding Resources for Post-Baccalaureate Students
Give
Goodlad Institute for Educational Renewal
Graduate
Graduate Policies & Petitions
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Hours Requirement
How applied experience activities and responsibilities are separate for each course
How Applied Experience hours go beyond their duties and responsibilities for their paid job.
How applied experience hours respectively contribute to the student’s learning goals for each course.
How their Applied Experience hours are separate from those hours for which the student is paid.
How their applied experience hours at the agency or organization are separately allocated for each course
Human Resources
Identify and describe identity formation
If adding dual-endorsement option, pass the WEST-E English Language Learner exam or the WEST-E Special Education exam , or receive an approved WEST-E Petition
If pursuing the english to speakers of other languages endorsement
If pursuing the special education endorsement
If students are engaged in religiously affiliated services or schools, students need to be contributing to the provision of social services through the institution, rather than participation in religious instruction.
If students have any questions or concerns about fingerprinting or the implications of state and federal background checks, please contact an Educational Studies advisor .
In the final course in the Developmental & Youth Studies major capstone sequence, students build a portfolio that showcases their critical reflection and learning related to School of Educational Studies core themes. Students are encouraged to collect artifacts (previous course papers or projects) relating to these themes and to think and write reflectively on them throughout their course of study.
In the final course in the Educational Studies major capstone sequence, students reflect on their Applied Experience placement and complete their capstone portfolio.
In the first course of the Educational Studies major capstone sequence, students begin to build a portfolio that showcases their critical reflection and learning related to Educational Studies core themes . Students are encouraged to collect artifacts (previous course papers or projects) relating to these themes and to think and write reflectively on them throughout their course of study.
In this case, the student must delineate, in writing:
In this section
Info Sessions & Events
Information for International Students
Information Technology
Instagram
integrate the knowledge and skills students have cultivated in Developmental & Youth Studies courses and apply elements of the School of Educational Studies Major core themes
integrate the knowledge and skills students have cultivated in Educational Studies courses and Other Department Electives and apply elements of the Educational Studies Major core themes
International students with a visa, other than F-1 visa holders, should consult an immigration attorney to determine their eligibility for completing this required practicum. F-1 visa holders will need to plan and apply for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) prior to beginning this required practicum. If you have any questions, please contact the International Student Services (ISS) office.
Internships
Internships are formal, organized programs used to provide a professionally-oriented learning experiences in an organization or occupation; and may be paid or unpaid. Internships are temporary, have a defined end date, and are not considered employment.
Jobs
Join the Elementary Education Teacher Certification Post-Baccalaureate Program
LEDE 510 Personal Leadership for Schools
LEDE 510 Personal Leadership for Schools: Helps principal candidate develop the personal qualities and commitments associated with successful school leadership. Focuses on leadership theories, professional knowledge and ethics, and strategies for continued learning in professional practice.
LEDE 520 Leadership for Curriculum and Teaching
LEDE 520 Leadership for Curriculum and Teaching: Helps principal preparation candidates expand knowledge for assisting other teachers with curriculum, instruction, and student engagement with learning. Focuses on knowledge of exemplary practice and documentation of impact of teaching and learning in schools.
LEDE 530 Leading Schools as Responsive Public Institutions
LEDE 530 Leading Schools as Responsive Public Institutions: Helps principal candidates build knowledge for developing and stewarding a schools&#8217; vision and goals so that they are just, sustainable, and responsive to legal, political, professional, and local interests. Focuses on legal, political, and professional contexts of school leadership and builds skills for communication about school goals and needs.
LEDE 540 Leading Schools as Continuously Renewing Organizations
LEDE 540 Leading Schools as Continuously Renewing Organizations: Helps principal candidates lead an effective and continually improving organization. Builds understanding of school managerial responsibilities as well as more complex tasks of assessing school needs and developing theories of action that focus daily work on desired school outcomes.
LEDE 550 Leading Schools as Inclusive Communities
LEDE 550 Leading Schools as Inclusive Communities: Helps principal candidates strengthen relationships, steward norms, establish programs, and lead conservations that foster collaborative decisions and collective action among the school&#8217;s many constituencies. Builds understanding of the ways that social capital, student and family diversity, and family involvement influence student learning and can be influenced by principal leadership.
LEDE Concentration Information
LEDE PEAB
Library
M.Ed. Core Courses
M.Ed. Courses
M.Ed. with Critical Educational Change and Leadership (CECL) Concentration
M.Ed. with Educating for Critical Race Theory (E-CRiT) Concentration
M.Ed. with English to Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) Concentration
M.Ed. with Leadership Development for Educators (LEDE) Concentration
Major Concentrations
Major Learning Objectives
Major Requirements
Maps & directions
Meet all UW Bothell admissions requirements
Meet our LEDE Faculty
Meet our M.Ed. Students
MONDAY
MONDAY &#8211; FRIDAY
MONDAY, TUESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY
More Links
Museums
MyUW
Neighborhood community centers
NES Elementary Education Test Scores – Subtests I and II , also called NES 102 and NES 103
NES Elementary Education Test Scores – Subtests I and II score reports
NES preparation materials
NES Resources
No minimum score required
Nonprofit organization with a teaching/learning/professional development component
Note: International transcripts must be evaluated prior to application
Notification of Admission
Notification of admission generally occurs by early February. Applicants will have 14 days to confirm their acceptance and secure their place in the program through a tuition deposit.
Number and days of the week may be determined by the schedule of a candidate’s assigned cooperating teacher. Cooperating teachers will work closely with the placement coordinator and the candidate to arrange a schedule to meet this requirement.
On this page
One 5-credit elective or two 3-credit electives (400 or 500 level) from other core areas in the M.Ed. program, classes offered by the School of Educational Studies or other UWB schools, or from the UW Seattle or UW Tacoma campuses.
Online application
Online proctoring available for WEST-B
Open mobile menu
Optional Dual Endorsement
Optional dual endorsement pathway beginning Spring 2026 !
Other Department Electives (25 credits)
Overview
Part-Time Course Plan (7 Quarters)
Part-Time Course Plan (8 Quarters)
Pass the NES I and II Elementary Education exams or receive an approved NES Petition
Placement Selection Process
Placement Sites
Placements must allow students to examine School of Educational Studies core themes
Placements must allow students to examine the Educational Studies Major core themes
Placements must comply with all policies outlined below.
Policies
Possible placements include:
Practicum Details
Practicum Experience Requirement
Practicum Experience Requirement (100 hours)
Practicum will consist of a minimum of 100 hours working directly with multilingual learners who are receiving English language development services. Placement will be in a public school classroom identified by the School of Educational Studies placement coordinator.
Prepare to Apply
Privacy
Professional Development
Professional Seminars
Program Requirements
Program Requirements - School of Educational Studies
Public school programs
Quarter
Quarter Total
Quick Links
Read about the applied experience requirements, guidelines, and policies .
Reading, Writing & Math Test Scores – SAT, ACT, or WEST-B score reports
Reading, Writing & Math Test Scores – SAT, ACT, or WEST-B scores
Register for B EDUC 495 according to the academic plan developed with academic advisor
Religious content may not be delivered or taught as part of Applied Experience.
Resources for choosing an Applied Experience placement
Rules Docket
S/NS Grades or equivalent during COVID-19 Pandemic. For quarters designated as having extenuating circumstances , SES will consider an S (satisfactory) grade or equivalent as fulfilling an admission requirements. S grades will not negatively impact your application.
Sample Course Schedule
SAT Reading, Math, Writing or Essay sections
School of Educational Studies
Scores older than 5 years are accepted
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
See Elementary Education Option requirements effective Autumn 2025 for the full list Elementary Education Option course requirements. Courses with a minimum grade of 2.0 (C letter grade) satisfy Academic Breadth requirements .
Skip To Content
Social Media
Some academic requirements related to BEDUC 495 must be completed for each quarter enrolled&#8211;see the BEDUC 495 Applied Experience syllabus for details.
Some Elementary Education courses carry course fees. These fees cover the cost of honoraria for cooperating (mentor) teachers.
SPED or ESOL Student Teaching
Spring
Spring &#8211; ESOL Endorsement (Optional)
Spring &#8211; SPED Endorsement (Optional)
Spring &#8211; Year 1
Spring &#8211; Year 2
Start Your Application
State internship and certification requirements
Step 1 : Earn a Bachelor&#8217;s Degree (from an accredited institution).
Step 2: Register for and take required admissions & certification exams.
Step 3: Apply to and be admitted to UW Bothell’s Elementary Teacher Certification Post-Baccalaureate program. Visit the UW Bothell Office of Admissions for more information.
Student Clubs & Organizations
Student Recruitment Manager
Student Teaching
Student Teaching*
Students accepted to the Elementary Education Teacher Certification Post-Baccalaureate will be legally required to submit their fingerprints to the Washington state Office of Superintendent of Public Instruction for Washington State Patrol and FBI background checks.
Students also begin assembling an annotated bibliography that is meant to span the degree and plan for B EDUC 495 Applied Experience.
Students are held to the Student Conduct Code for the University of Washington .
Students can learn more about Educational Studies policies and petitions here and seek academic advising here .
Students may submit an SES Petition to register for more than 10 credits of electives from the other concentration.
Students must select a concentration area, but can enroll in up to 10 credits of Educational Studies (B EDUC) and/or Other Department electives from the other concentration.
Students seeking academic advising can schedule an appointment through our Academic Advising page. To learn more about Developmental & Youth Studies&#8217; policies and petitions, please visit our Undergraduate Policies & Petitions page.
Students should meet with their academic advisor at least one quarter before beginning Applied Experience to discuss which Community-Engaged Learning & Research (CELR) placement option, or self-placement, best meets their academic and career interests. Students can use the EXPO database to explore available CBLR opportunities.
Students will be mentored by a certified ELL cooperating teacher and an SES field supervisor.
Students will receive support and guidance on all certification requirements from academic advisors, field placement coordinators, and field instructors.
Successfully complete student teaching internship
Summer
Summer &#8211; Year 1
Summer &#8211; Year 2
Tacoma Campus
TCert PEAB
Teacher candidates will be in their ESOL classroom placement a minimum of 3 days a week for approximately 8 weeks (not including district spring break week) during the UW quarter.
Teacher Certification Requirements
Teaching & Learning Minor
TEACHING METHODS
Terms
Test scores are a state-mandated teacher certification requirement
The CECL concentration of the Master of Education program requires students to earn a minimum of 37 credits. These credits are earned through the completion of professional seminar courses, core courses, an elective course, and a completion dossier. See below for specific course requirements and descriptions.
The content of this major spans early childhood into adolescence and emerging adulthood in a range of social contexts including family, peer, school, and community, with a focus on diversity and equity. In the Developmental and Youth Studies degree, students will:
The course may be taken for 2-5 credits each quarter until the number of required hours is fulfilled (see table below).
The E-CRiT concentration within the Master of Education program requires students to earn a minimum of 37 credits. These credits are earned through completion of core courses and community-based fieldwork. See below for specific course requirements and descriptions.
The Elementary Education Option requires that students complete a student teaching practicum, along with a practicum in an English to Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) classroom OR a practicum in a Special Education classroom. International students with a visa, other than F-1 visa holders, should consult an immigration attorney to determine their eligibility for completing these required practica. F-1 visa holders will need to plan and apply for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) prior to beginning these required practica. If you have any questions, please contact the International Student Services (ISS) office.
The Elementary Education Teacher Certification Post-Baccalaureate requires that students complete a student teaching practicum, along with an optional practicum in an English to Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) classroom OR in a Special Education classroom. International students with a visa, other than F-1 visa holders, should consult an immigration attorney to determine their eligibility for completing these required practica. F-1 visa holders will need to plan and apply for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) prior to beginning these required practica. If you have any questions, please contact the International Student Services (ISS) office.
The ESOL concentration of the Master of Education program requires students to earn a minimum of 37 credits. These credits are earned through completion of professional seminar courses, core courses, an elective course, and a completion dossier. See below for specific course requirements and descriptions.
The M.Ed. with LEDE Concentration includes:
The Spring 2026 cohort application is now closed.
The Spring 2027 cohort application will open in early autumn 2026.
The total number of hours required for 5 credits of BEDUC 495 Applied Experience is 100.
The total number of hours required for 5 credits of BEDUC 495 Applied Experience is 100. *See COVID-19 announcement below*
This final 2-credit course provides an opportunity for candidates to demonstrate comprehensive knowledge, skills and dispositions associated with the program’s overall goals for academic learning and improvement of professional practice in education. The Completion Dossier ensures breadth of academic work and application of knowledge in each candidate’s work toward the M.Ed. degree.
This written statement must be submitted prior to beginning any applied experience hours and must be approved by the BEDUC 495 course instructor.
This written statement must be submitted prior to beginning any Applied Experience hours and must be approved by the BEDUC 495 course instructor.
THURSDAY
Time Schedule
Time spent completing Applied Experience hours is counted towards earning academic course credit for BEDUC 495, and, to avoid any potential conflict of interest regarding time and activities spent working as an employee versus time and activities spent learning as a student.
Time spent in a time-limited internship, paid or unpaid, may be counted toward the completion of B EDUC 495 Applied Experience.
To be recommended for elementary teacher certification in Washington state, students must also complete these requirements:
To be recommended for the ESOL endorsement, students are required to pass the Washington Educator Skills Test (WEST-E) English Language Learner test (051). Students are requested to take the WEST-E 051 before the end of their practicum. This test is required by the State of Washington and is designed to assess teacher candidates’ competencies outlined by the Professional Educator Standard Board in teaching multilingual learners.
Transcripts for all degree-granting institutions. Official transcripts must be sent directly to the UW Bothell Admissions Office .
TUESDAY
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Policies & Petitions
Union or advocacy organization
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Requirements
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UW Bothell&#8217;s Elementary Education Teacher Certification Post-Baccalaureate operates on a cohort model. Students are accepted once per year to begin coursework in Spring quarter and will take courses together throughout the program. Classes are held during the day with some evening coursework, Monday-Friday.
uwbinfo@uw.edu
uwbses@uw.edu
Visitors
Volunteer work must address a recognized need beyond congregation membership towards the greater community.
WEDNESDAY
Weekly Hours
WEST-B , Reading, Math, & Writing subtests
WEST-B Resources:
Why do you want to be a teacher? What aspects of your identity do you feel are strengths that you could bring to the teaching profession and in working with youth?
Winter
Winter &#8211; Year 1
Winter &#8211; Year 2
Work with CBLR staff to secure placement or request approval from B EDUC 495 instructor for self-placement.
Workday Login
X
YouTube
