Owner: uw-bothell-earth-system-science
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/earth-system-science
Title: Earth System Science - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
18115 Campus Way NE
21 Acres &#8211; Plot D Soil Analysis
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. Earth Systems Science Base
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional Elective Options
Additional Foundation Science Course (15-17 credits)
Additional Foundation Science Courses (14-17 credits)
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted prior to Autumn Quarter 2024?
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Analyze complex phenomena or problems in the Earth sciences and place them in the context of holistic systems, identifying their components, interconnections, critical thresholds, and leverage points for enhancing system function and environmental justice.
Apply As Undergraduate
Apply their multi-disciplinary understanding to characterizing aspects of the Earth system and critically evaluating Earth system science information, models, and methods.
Apply their understanding of Earth system science, the scientific method, and interdisciplinary inquiry in generating research questions and selecting methods for assessing hypotheses, evaluating data, and creating knowledge.
Are you curious about planetary processes that create, change, or destroy livable habitats?
Autumn Quarter
B BIO 180 Introductory Biology
B BIO 330 Marine Biology (F)
B BIO 335 Salmon and Society (F)
B BIO 471 Plant Ecology
B BIO 495 Advanced Seminar/Investigative Biology (Faculty Permission Required, see Time Schedule for details) (F)
B BIO 495 Investigative Biology
B BIO, B CHEM, B PHYS, or BST 499 Undergraduate Research
B CHEM 143 General Chemistry I + B CHEM 144 General Chemistry I Lab
B CHEM 153 General Chemistry II + B CHEM 154 General Chemistry Lab II
B CHEM 163 General Chemistry III + B CHEM 164 General Chemistry Lab III
B CHEM 315 Quantitative Environmental Analysis
B CHEM 350 Atmospheric Chemistry and Air Pollution
B CHEM 495 & B CHEM 496 Investigative Chemistry I & II
B ENGR 310 Computational Physical Modeling
B GIS 342 Geographic Information Systems (5 Credits)
B GIS 343 Geographic Visualization
B GIS 344 Intermediate Geographic Analysis and Application
B GIS 442 Advanced Geographic Analysis and Applications
B HLTH 407 Climate Change and Health
B MATH 144 Calculus for Life & Social Science
B MATH 215
B PHYS 101 Introduction to Astronomy
B PHYS 114 General Physics + B PHYS 117 General Physics Lab
B PHYS 115 General Physics + B PHYS 118 General Physics Laboratory
B PHYS 116 General Physics + B PHYS 119 General Physics Laboratory
B PHYS 121 Mechanics*
B PHYS 122 Electromagnetism & Oscillatory Motion
B PHYS 123 Waves
B WRIT 134 Composition or equivalent
B. Introductory Math and Science Requirements (30-33 Credits)
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
BACK TO TOP
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
BEARTH 153 Introduction to Geology
BEARTH 154 Introduction to Oceanography
BEARTH 155 Introduction to Climate Science
BEARTH 201 Mapping the Earth System
BEARTH 202 Modeling Global Systems
BEARTH 310 Fundamentals of Weather and Climate
BEARTH 317 Soils in the Environment (F)
BEARTH 318 Hydrogeology
BEARTH 320 Impacts of Climate Change
BEARTH 321 Geomorphology (F)
BEARTH 341 Natural Hazards and Human Disasters
BES 301 Science Methods & Practices or BST 301 Scientific Writing
BES 301 Science Methods & Practices OR BST 301 Scientific Writing (5 credits)
BES 303 Environmental Monitoring Practicum (F)
BES 312 Ecology
BES 316 Ecological Methods (F)
BES 330 Limnology (F)
BES 362 Introduction to Restoration Ecology
BES 440 Remote Sensing of the Environment
BES 460 Water Quality (F)
BES 486 Watershed Ecology and Management
BES 488 Wetland Ecology (F)*
BES 491 Research in Environmental Science
BES 492 & BES 493 Capstone Research in Environmental Science I & II
BES 498 Independent Research in Environmental Science
BIS 141 Natural History and Environmental Science
BIS 215
BIS 218 Power of Maps
BIS 231 Linear Algebra
BIS 242 Environmental Geography
BIS 243 Introduction to Environmental Issues
BIS 245 Environment and Humanities
BIS 246 Introduction to Sustainability
BIS 252 Politics of Science
BIS 282 Globalization
BIS 304 Political Economy and the Environment
BIS 306 Marine Diversity and Conservation
BIS 307 Environmental Justice
BIS 314 Topics in Geography
BIS 319 Public Arts and Environmental Restoration
BIS 320 Comparative Political Economies
BIS 338 Political Institutions and Processes
BIS 342 Geographic Information Systems (5 Credits)
BIS 345 American Environmental Thought
BIS 346 Topics in Environmental Policy
BIS 353 Human Rights Theory and Practice
BIS 356 Ethics and the Environment
BIS 359 Principles & Controversies of Sustainability
BIS 359 Principles and Controversies of Sustainability
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World
BIS 385 Biodiversity Conservation
BIS 386 Climate Change Adaptation Policy
BIS 391 Environmental History of the Pacific Northwest
BIS 392 Water & Sustainability
BIS 392 Water and Sustainability
BIS 394 Comparative Economic Development
BIS 405 Environmental Education
BIS 406 Urban Planning and Geography
BIS 408 Critical Physical Geography
BIS 411 Network Analysis and Visualization
BIS 412 Advanced Data Visualization
BIS 415 Public Policy and Law
BIS 447 Topics in Quantitative Inquiry
BIS 458 Energy, Environment and Society
BIS 459 Conservation & Sustainable Development
BIS 468 Human Rights and Sustainable Development
BIS 483 Community Organizing
BIS 495 Internship
BISGST 303 History and Globalization
BISGST 324 International Political Economy
BISSTS 355 History of Science and Technology
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
BST 445 Political Economy of Energy
C. Earth Systems Ascent (40 Credits)
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone 5 credits from the below options (Subject to approval based on project topics)
Career Planning
Career resources
Careers
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Collaborate and share leadership
Communicate effectively and inclusively
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Computer Methods and Quantitative Analysis (2 courses; 9-10 credits)
Computer Methods and Quantitative Analysis (9-10 credits)
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Courses
Courses in the Earth System Science major provide an opportunity to examine changes in various environments and landscapes due to human interaction. Through a foundational knowledge of calculus, physics, chemistry, and other natural sciences, students gather data, monitor environmental conditions, and conduct scientific investigations.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Critically reflect on what they are learning in their courses and research and make claims of their learning gains and research findings that are supported by evidence.
CSS 112 Introduction to Programming for Scientific Applications
CSS 142 Computer Programming I
CSS 455 Introduction to Computational Science and Scientific Programming
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Degree Completion
Degree Requirements
Demonstrate a foundational understanding of mathematics, chemistry, biology, and/or physics, along with an advanced understanding of geoscience.
Demonstrate an advanced ability to work with partners and in groups, including the capacities for taking and sharing leadership, following through on collective decisions, promoting the potential of all group members, and mediating conflict.
Demonstrate understanding of how human civilization interacts with Earth systems at multiple scales and how Earth system science relates to and informs management and policy objectives.
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Earth System Science
Earth System Science - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Earth System Science Focus Courses (20 Credits)
Earth System Science Focus Courses (4 courses; 20 credits) — at least 1 course taken must be a field (F) course
Earth Systems Ascent Coursework (39-40 Credits)
Earth Systems Science Base Coursework (25 Credits)
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Engage in projects with external partners in a fashion that adheres to the highest standards of professionalism and results in mutually beneficial outcomes.
Engage with diverse agencies, communities, and other groups with an understanding of the many cultural, geographic, socio-economic, and political contexts in which people interact with Earth systems.
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Chemistry: Measurement and Interpretation of Global Air Pollutants at the Mt. Bachelor Observatory (MBO)
Environmental Chemistry: Measurement of Air Pollution at Regional Hot Spots
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
ESS Capstone 5 credits from the below options (Subject to approval based on project topics)
ESS graduates will be expected to demonstrate advanced achievement of UW Bothell&#8217;s Learning Goals , and the Learning Objectives of both IAS and STEM. In addition, the ESS Program is designed to provide a curriculum and co-curricular opportunities that will specifically enable graduates to:
ESS majors must take 1 fieldwork (F) course from the following 3 categories. Fieldwork courses are designed to give students hands-on experience outside of the classroom and in the natural environment. Experiences will vary from short on-campus lessons to longer fieldtrips to regional locations. Fieldwork courses are marked as (F), please see your Academic Advisor for additional courses that may apply toward the Fieldwork requirement.
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Examples of undergraduate research :
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Fall Convergence
Finding undergraduate research opportunities :
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Full-time/Part-time
Function as earth system scientists
Function as independent interdisciplinary scholars
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Generally, the ESS Capstone will complete the IPR requirement.
Generate a data collection plan and synthesize information derived from observations, experiments, models, and scholarly readings.
Generate graphics, reports, and presentations in ways that are appropriate and educational for their intended audience (e.g., other scientists, policy makers, and the general public).
Get research experience
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
Human Dimensions of the Earth System (10 credits)
Human Dimensions of the Earth System (2 courses; 10 credits)
Human Resources
iasgrad@uw.edu
iasinfo@uw.edu
If you are NOT a current UW Bothell student, please contact the UW Bothell Admissions team at uwbinfo@uw.edu .
If you’re a current UW Bothell student interested in applying to the Earth System Science major, you can find more information on our How to apply page.
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Information Technology
Integrate social science and natural science epistemologies
Interact and communicate with others in ways that are inclusive and manifest a respect for diversity in all its forms.
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 98-103 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in exploring this major but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major. These courses may also be applied to the required prerequisite courses for admission into the major.
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
Introductory Calculus (5 credits)
Introductory Chemistry (5-6 credits)
Introductory Environmental Courses (15 Credits, in addition to prerequisite)
Introductory Environmental Courses (15 credits) NOTE: Selected courses should not overlap with a prerequisite. Transfer courses must be approved by an Academic Advisor.
Introductory Math and Science Requirements (30-33 Credits, in addition to prerequisite))
Introductory Physics (5 credits)
​Introductory Statistics (5 credits)
Introductory Statistics (5 credits)
Investigating the Ability of Mushroom Mycelium to Reduce Fecal Coliform Bacteria Contamination in Surface Water
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to apply
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Low Dissolved Oxygen levels And the Impact on Crop Growth Potential
Major Requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Mapping the North Creek Forest Surface Water: A GPS Project
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Master systems thinking
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
Mycoremediation of Coliform Bacteria in University of Washington Bothell Wetlands
MyUW
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: See all IAS polices and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
NOTE: Selected courses should not overlap with a prerequisite. Transfer courses must be approved by an Academic Advisor.
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
One Introductory Earth System Science Courses (5 credits):
One Introductory Math and Science course from list below
Open mobile menu
Or equivalent transfer course (ENVIR 100, ESRM 100, ESS 101, ESS 201, or OCEAN 101)
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Studies (MA)
PRACTICE
Prerequisites
Privacy
PROFESSION
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
PURPOSE
Quick Links
Ready to Apply?
Recommended preparation
Relate how differing conceptions of ethics, human-nature relationships, structural inequities, and the objectives of sustainability and resilience inform evaluations of Earth system challenges and alternative solutions.
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Review the &#8220; introductory math and science requirements &#8221; list for available courses to choose from.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
STMATH 124 Calculus I
STMATH 125 Calculus II
STMATH 126 Calculus III
STMATH 207 Introduction to Differential Equations
STMATH 208 Matrix Algebra with Applications
STMATH 224 Multivariable Calculus
STMATH 341
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students admitted to the Earth System Science major prior to Autumn 2024 may be eligible to complete a retired set of major requirements. For more information, please check with your academic advisor.
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students in the Earth System Science major are passionate about understanding the interrelationships among the physical, chemical, and biological components of the Earth. Students identify patterns that can help predict and protect against the future impact of global warming by broadening their interests in water, ice, soil, rocks, air, weather, plants, and animals.
Students may substitute Capstone with the below options with ESS Faculty Approval- See Advisor for assistance.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students must complete the following prerequisites, with a minimum 2.0 grade, to declare the Bachelor of Science in Earth System Science major. Once all have been completed you can declare the major using the online Major Declaration Form .
Students researching new way to clean waters
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
The Earth System Science (ESS) major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to deepen their understanding of the planetary processes that create, change, or destroy livable habitats. Classroom activities and hands-on field research allows students to observe and interpret how the Earth’s atmosphere, ocean and land surfaces interact and impact human and environmental health.
The ESS degree program is jointly administered by the School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences (IAS) and the School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics (STEM) with teaching and research contributions from faculty members in both schools.
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
Time Schedule
Tips for exploring graduate school
Total= 98-103 credits
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Using their background in Earth System Science, graduates from this major get hands-on experience using GPS and other remote sensing technologies to sustain and improve natural environmental resources. The major leads to jobs in government, research labs, science education, management, consulting, and environmental protection agencies.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Student Research Opportunities page
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Winter Quarter
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
