Owner: uw-bothell-csse-information-assurance-and-cybersecurity
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/stem/undergraduate/majors/bscsse/curriculum
Title: CSSE Curriculum - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics

[Supplemental official source] Core Courses
[Supplemental official source] Culminating Experience
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
* CSS 432 Computer Networking
* INFO 314: Computer Networks and Distributed Applications
* T INFO 250 Foundations of Information Networking
* The above information regarding CSSSKL 511 and 594 applies to students who began their program in Autumn 2025 or after. For students who began before this date, CSSSKL 511 and 594 are either required or waived based on your results from the Writing Skills Assessment that you completed at the start of your program.
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
10 credits at 300-level or higher in any subject area
300-400 Level Electives (15 credits / usually 3 courses)
425.352.5000
425.352.5490
A forthcoming process to evaluate students’ knowledge of the skills covered in CSSKL 511: Technical Writing (1 cr) will allow students to waive this course if proficiency is determined. Students who do not demonstrate this proficiency via past coursework will be required to take the course. All students will be required to take CSSSKL 594: Scientific Writing for Thesis/Project (2 cr), and there is no waiver available for this course.
About
Accessibility
Actuarial Science
Additional courses: As needed to fulfill the University General Education Requirements
Additional Writing (W) &#8211; 10 credits
Additional Writing (W) &#8211; 5 credits
Admissions
Advising
After admission into the general CSSE major, you can contact the advising office at cssadv@uw.edu to switch into the IAC option. Please include your name and student ID number.
All courses required for this degree (not including general education courses) must be passed with a minimum grade of 2.0 or higher .
All prerequisite courses and major requirements require a minimum grade of 2.0 or higher .
All students must take a one-credit CSS 599: Faculty Research Seminar. The seminar gives students the opportunity to interact and learn about current research conducted by the CSS faculty. It is recommended students take this course in their first quarter, so that they are made familiar with current research early in their academic career. The course is 1 credit, and the class typically meets one hour per week.
All UW Bothell
All UW students must complete a common set of general education requirements . As a Chemistry major, you will have already completed the Natural Science (NSc) and Reasoning (R) requirements by taking chemistry, physics, and math classes, but make sure to plan for completion of the following:
All UW students must complete a common set of general education requirements . As a Computer Engineering major, you will be on track for completing the English Composition (C), some Additional Writing (W), Natural Science (NSc) , and Reasoning (R) , but make sure to plan for completion of the following:
Almost always also fulfills A&H or SSc
Alumni
Analysis & Problem Solving
Any ONE of the following courses to be selected:
Applied Computing
Apply As Undergraduate
Approved Independent Study in Chemistry (B CHEM 498) (1 – 5 credits, maximum 10)
Approved Independent Study in Chemistry (B CHEM 498) (1–5 credits, maximum 10)
Approved Undergraduate Research in Chemistry (B CHEM 499) (1 – 5 credits, maximum 10)
Approved Undergraduate Research in Chemistry (B CHEM 499) (1–5 credits, maximum 10)
Arts & Humanities (A&H) &#8211; 15 credits
Arts & Humanities (A&H) &#8211; 15 credits (cannot overlap with SSc)
Associate Professor with Tenure
At least 5 elective credits must be 400-level
Awards & Endowments
B BIO 180 Introductory Biology I
B BIO 200 Introductory Biology II
B BIO 364 / B CHEM 364 Biochemistry I (5 credits)
B BIO 365 / B CHEM 365 Biochemistry II (5 credits)
B BIO 366 / B CHEM 366 Biochemistry Lab (3 credits)
B BIO 375 / B CHEM 375 Molecular Biology (5 credits)
B CHEM 237 Organic Chemistry I (4 credits)
B CHEM 238/241 Organic Chemistry II w/ Lab (4+3 credits)
B CHEM 239/242 Organic Chemistry III w/ Lab (4+3 credits)
B CHEM 294 Chemistry Seminar (1-2 credits)
B CHEM 294 Chemistry Seminar (1–2 credits)
B CHEM 310 Molecular Modeling (5 credits)
B CHEM 312 Inorganic Chemistry I (3 credits)
B CHEM 313 Inorganic Chemistry II (3 credits)
B CHEM 316 Quantitative Chemical Analysis and Equilibrium Chemistry (4 credits)
B CHEM 317 Quantitative Environmental Analysis Lab (3 credits)
B CHEM 350 Atmospheric Chemistry and Air Pollution (5 credits)
B CHEM 401 Physical Chemistry I (4 credits)
B CHEM 402 Physical Chemistry II (4 credits)
B CHEM 404 Physical Chemistry Lab (4 credits)
B CHEM 426 Instrumental Analysis (5 credits)
B CHEM 493 Advanced Topics in Chemistry (1 – 5 credits, maximum 15)
B CHEM 493 Advanced Topics in Chemistry (1–5 credits, maximum 15)
B CHEM 494 Special Topics in Biochemistry (3 credits, maximum 12)
B CHEM 495 Investigative Chemistry I (3 credits)
B CHEM 497 Apprenticeship in Chemistry Education (1 – 3 credits, maximum 6)
B CHEM 497 Apprenticeship in Chemistry Education (1–3 credits, maximum 6)
B PHYS 114/117 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 115/118 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 116/119 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 121 Mechanics (5 credits)
B PHYS 122 Electromagnetism and Oscillatory Motion (5 credits)
B PHYS 123 Waves (5 credits)
B.A. in Chemistry
B.A. in Chemistry requirements
B.S. in Chemistry (biochemistry option)
B.S. in Chemistry (biochemistry option) requirements
B.S. in Chemistry (general option)
B.S. in Chemistry (general option) requirements
BCHEM 143+144: General Chemistry I + Lab (6 credits)
BEE 215: Fundamentals of EE (5 credits)
BEE 233: Circuit Theory (5 credits)
BEE 235: Continuous Time Linear Systems (5 credits)
BEE 271: Digital Circuits & Systems (5 credits)
BEE 331: Devices & Circuits I (5 credits)
BENGR 494 (3 credits)
BENGR 495 (3 credits)
BENGR 496 (3 credits)
Biological Sciences
Biology
Biology (BBIO)
Biology series
Biomedical
Biomedical Systems and Devices
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Business Case Justification: Justifies project expenditures, equipment and other resources in terms of business costs, benefits and risks.
BWRIT 135 (Research Writing) or similar recommended
Campus Safety
Cannot overlap with A&H
Cannot overlap with SSc
Canvas
Capstone
Capstones
Career Resources
Careers
Center for Biotechnology Innovation & Training
Chemistry
Chemistry (BCHEM)
Chemistry Curriculum
Chemistry Curriculum - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
Chemistry Electives can be fulfilled by any 300-level or higher &#8220;BCHEM&#8221; course that is not already required for your degree option.
Chemistry series
Chemistry-related courses that are not included on the core or elective requirements lists are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you want to use as an elective, you can submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Choose one of the following three-course series options:
Choose your pathway
Close mobile menu
Collaboration & Team Building: Collaborates effectively with others to achieve a common objective, creates an environment that fosters and sustains successful teamwork.
Commuter Services
Complete five additional credits of approved 300- or 400-level courses offered by the School of STEM.
Complete five credits from any of the following courses:
Complete fourteen credits from any of the following courses:
Complete seven credits from any of the following courses, including at least one lab.
Computer Engineering
Computer Engineering Capstone (10 credits)
Computer Engineering Capstone (BCE)
Computer Engineering Curriculum
Computer Engineering Curriculum - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
Computer Engineering-related courses that are not included on the core or elective requirements lists are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you wish to use as an elective, you may submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Computer Science (30 credits)
Computer Science & Software Engineering
Computer Science &#038; Software Engineering (CSSE)
Computing &#038; Software Systems
Computing and Software Systems (CSS)
Computing-related courses that are not included on the core or elective requirements lists are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you wish to use as an elective, you may submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Computing-related courses that are not listed above are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you want to use as an elective, you can submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Conduct a risk assessment for an information asset or system, and develop and characterize appropriate strategies for addressing residual risk
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core Courses
Core Courses - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
Core requirements
Course
Course descriptions
Creativity: Challenges existing assumptions, proposes novel alternative ways to framing or solving a problem, pushes the boundaries of knowledge.
CSS 301: Technical Writing (5 credits)
CSS 310: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity
CSS 337 Secure Systems
CSS 342: Advanced Data Structures, Algorithms, and Discrete Mathematics I (5 credits)
CSS 343: Advanced Data Structures, Algorithms, and Discrete Mathematics II (5 credits)
CSS 360: Software Engineering (5 credits)
CSS 411 Computer Technology and Public Policy
CSS 415 Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
CSS 427: Intro to Embedded Systems (5 credits)
CSS 430: Operating Systems (5 credits)
CSS 517 Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (5)
CSS 537 Network and System Security (5)
CSS 577 Secure Software Development (5)
CSS 599: Faculty Research Seminar (1)
CSS Labs
CSS Registration
CSSKL 594: Scientific Writing for Thesis/Project (2 cr) : Students are advised to take CSSKL 594 in their final quarter of study, when the writing of the final thesis or capstone report is taking place, or when advised by your capstone chair otherwise. Course goals include helping students draft and edit thesis or capstone reports. Cybersecurity students not completing a final thesis or capstone project will need to take this course when taking the Culminating Course or Culminating Internship which will fulfill their Culminating Experience requirement.
CSSSKL 511: Technical Writing (1 cr) : Students are advised to take CSSSKL 511 when enrolled in the Winter or Spring quarter of their first year in the program.
Culminating Experience
Current site
Curriculum
Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity Core Knowledge
Data Science
Declaring the IAC option
Department of Biological Sciences Faculty
Department of Computing & Software Systems Faculty
Department of Engineering & Mathematics Faculty
Department of Physical Sciences Faculty
Department of Physical Sciences Research
Departments
Design and implement the security practices of an organization that are informed by the understanding and interpretation of key laws, regulations, standards, and best practices
Design, assess, build, and maintain secure systems and software
Directory
Diversity (DIV) &#8211; 5 credits
Diversity (DIV) &#8211; 5 credits (almost always also fulfills A&H or SSc; was only 3 credits prior to autumn 2023)
Earth System Science
EE Open lab schedule
Efficiency: Identifies ways to solve problems or complete tasks smoothly and effectively; choose the optimum solution form and set of alternative possibilities.
Elective Courses
Elective courses must have either the CSS or BEE prefix
Elective requirements
Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering (30 credits)
Electrical Engineering (BEE)
Engineering &#038; Mathematics
English Composition (C) &#8211; 5 credits
Entry prerequisites
Evaluate the role of cybersecurity policies, procedures, standards, and guidelines within an organizational context, and design and implement one or more such solutions
Events
Excellence in Cybersecurity Education
Expand Navigation
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty Research Projects
Faculty Research Seminar
Follow the links below for descriptions of each course. The chemistry majors use courses from several different disciplines:
Follow the links below to read about the content covered in each course:
For a more visual version of the information on this page, download the Computer Engineering degree checklist .
Foundation Level
Frequently Asked Questions
Friday Harbor Laboratories
Full Professor
General Business, Social & Technical
General education requirements
Getting Started with Computer Science
Give
Graduate
Graduate Certificate in Electrical & Computer Engineering Foundations
Graduate Certificate in Software Design & Development
Graduate Programs
Graduate-level competency on technical and scientific writing is a critical area of knowledge for students in any master’s degree.
Graduate-level Technical & Scientific Writing
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Heritage University REU
How to Apply
Human Resources
IAC-option students take the same core courses as those of the general CSSE major, but replace the 25 credits of &#8220;CSS Electives&#8221; with the courses below:
Identify, model, prioritize, and defend against threats to systems
Important planning notes
In addition to the cybersecurity core courses, all students must take a one credit faculty seminar, and a forthcoming process to evaluate students’ knowledge of the skills covered in CSSKL 511: Technical Writing (1 cr) will allow students to waive this course if proficiency is determined. Students who do not demonstrate this proficiency via past coursework will be required to take the course. All students will be required to take CSSSKL 594: Scientific Writing for Thesis/Project (2 cr), and there is no waiver available for this course.
In this section
Industry partners
INFO 312: Enterprise Risk Management
INFO 415: Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) is a Computer Science & Software Engineering pathway that covers the creation and management of safe and secure systems. All organizations—large or small, public or private—rely on secure systems for individual and organizational privacy and security. The IAC option prepares students to create, deploy, and manage systems that ensure the security of any organization.
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) option
Information Gathering: Effectively searches out and organizes pertinent information before making decisions or taking actions.
Information Technology
Information Technology (IT)
Internship
Interpersonal Skills
Investigative Biology
Jobs
Laboratories
Leadership: Champions new ideas, persuades and influences, breaks logjams, and promotes momentum toward solving problems.
Learning by Doing: Demonstrates the ability to learn continuously, capitalize on mistakes, exploit new knowledge, increase productivity over time.
Learning goals
Learning Outcomes
Library
Majors
Management Skills
Managing Change & Uncertainty: Adapts to changing circumstances, deals positively with uncertainties and contingencies, manages crises effectively.
Maps & directions
Marine Biology
Master of Science in Computer Science & Software Engineering
Master of Science in Cybersecurity Engineering
Master of Science in Electrical & Computer Engineering
Materials
Math and Chemistry (26 credits)
Mathematical Principles and Techniques: Understands theory and application of numerical, statistical, set theory, and other mathematical techniques in the context of applications and systems programming.
Mathematics
Maximum of 5 credits combined can be CSS or BEE &#8220;Special Topics&#8221; courses
Maximum of 5 credits combined can be CSS or BEE Independent Study (498) or Undergrad Research (499)
May be additional CSS electives or electives from other subject areas
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering Research
Microelectronics and Devices
Minimum 15 credits (3 courses) of elective coursework from the lists below. Only one networking class (CSS 432, INFO 314, or T INFO 250; marked with an asterisk * ) may be taken.
Minimum 2.0 grade for any course applied to the major.
Minimum 2.0 grade is required in each one of the above chemistry courses.
Minimum of 5 additional credits (usually 1 course) of 200-level or higher CSS Elective coursework in any topic.
Minors
More Links
MyUW
National Center of Academic Excellence in Cybersecurity
Neuroscience
News
Note: BCE 495 and BCE 496 no longer offered; BENGR 495 and BENGR 496 will satisfy those requirements.
Ocean Engineering
One of either BEE 425: Microprocessor System Design (5 credits) or CSS 422: Hardware and Computer Organization (5 credits)
Only 3 credits prior if admitted prior to autumn 2023
Open mobile menu
Option 1
Option 2
Organic Chemistry series
Petition
Petitions
Physical Sciences
Physics
Physics (BPHYS)
Physics series
Power &#038; Energy
Prerequisites guide
Present and defend research
Previous Quarters
Privacy
Process Reengineering: Performs business requirement analysis, using appropriate tools and methodologies to maximize organizational performance.
Project
Project Administration: Administers and maintains projects, using appropriate monitoring tools and complying with relevant standards and reporting requirements.
Project Management: Plans, monitors, and controls projects; ensures efficient utilization of resources; keeps projects on schedule and within budgeted resource allocation.
Project or Thesis
Promotion & Tenure Guidelines
Promotion and Tenure Public Statement
Quick Links
Read more about the Culminating course process
Read more about the Culminating internship process
Read more about the project process
Read more about the thesis process
Requirements
Research
Research &#038; Internships
Research &#038; labs
Research Experiences for Undergraduates
Resources
Risk Management: Foresees and takes action pro-actively in anticipation of future problems and opportunities.
Rules Docket
Safety and Security Studies and Modeling in Fluids
School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
School of STEM Student Success
Science & Technology Mathematics (STMATH)
Science and Technology Mathematics (STMATH)
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Signal Processing
Skip To Content
Social Sciences (SSc) &#8211; 15 credits
Social Sciences (SSc) &#8211; 15 credits (cannot overlap with A&H)
Staff
STEM Advisory Board
STEM Symposium Event
stemgrad@uw.edu
stemsuccess@uw.edu
STMATH 207 Introduction to Differential Equations (5 credits)
STMATH 207: Introduction to Differential Equations (5 credits)
STMATH 208 Matrix Algebra with Applications (5 credits)
STMATH 208: Matrix Algebra with Applications (5 credits)
STMATH 224 Multivariable Calculus (5 credits)
STMATH 224: Multivariable Calculus (5 credits)
STMATH 341 Introduction to Statistical Inference (5 credits)
STMATH 390: Probability & Statistics in Engineering (5 credits)
Student Forms &#038; Resources
Student Organizations
Students can choose any 300- or 400-level course listed in the School of STEM time schedule as an elective. If the course is from UW Seattle or is outside of a STEM major, students must submit a to the department using the Chemistry Major or Minor Requirement Petition form.
Students choose one of four Culminating Experience pathways depending on which will best allow them to reach their academic and professional goals: project, thesis, coursework, or internship. Students must complete all 15 credits of core coursework and 15 credits of electives by the time they begin their 10 credit Culminating Experience.
Students choose one of three 5-credit culminating cybersecurity courses (CSS 538 in autumn, CSS 518 in winter, or CSS 539 in spring) to apply and advance learnings from their core and elective coursework. A deliverable (such as a comprehensive report) will be produced by the student at the end of the quarter. To complete the coursework option, students take one additional 5-credit elective, bringing their elective total for the degree to 25.
Students complete a 10-credit project (CSS 595) which involves working under the guidance of a faculty committee to apply knowledge obtained from the program’s curriculum to build connections between academic concepts and the application of those concepts into real-world context. Students present and defend their work at the end of the program and produce a comprehensive report of their findings.
Students complete a 10-credit thesis (CSS 700) which involves working under the guidance of a faculty committee to apply knowledge obtained from the program’s curriculum to conduct research and produce a scholarly written document aimed at an academic audience as a contribution to an existing body of knowledge. Students present and defend the culmination of their work at the end of the master&#8217;s program.
Students pursuing the project or thesis Culminating Experience will present their research to their faculty committee. Check out recent titles and abstracts in the final defense schedule to learn more about the latest master&#8217;s student research.
Students who secure and finish a cybersecurity-related internship will complete 5 credits of CSS 601 Internship where they work with a faculty sponsor to set learning goals and demonstrate their ability to apply their learnings from the curriculum in a professional and practical setting. To complete the internship Culminating Experience option, students take one additional 5-credit elective, bringing their elective total for the degree to 25.
Submit a chemistry major / minor petition
Submit a computer engineering petition
Submit an applied computing petition
Systemic Thinking: Follows a well-ordered and logical approach to analyzing problems, organizing work, and searching for solutions.
T INFO 441 Network Security
T INFO 442 Computer Security
T INFO 443 Digital Forensics
Tacoma Campus
Teaching Effectiveness Public Statement
Teaching Track Faculty
Technical Level
Technology Evaluation and Selection: Evaluates and selects software and hardware appropriate to the application, architecture and resource constraints; maintains awareness and understanding of emerging technology.
Terms
The Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry is intentionally flexible, allowing you to tailor your academic journey — whether that means pursuing a minor, adding a second major, preparing for graduate school or a future career, or simply diving into courses that you enjoy.
The Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (biochemistry option) focuses on Biology and Biochemistry courses. It has a higher amount of core required courses and fewer electives.
The Computer Engineering curriculum is ABET accredited and students need to complete major requirements and meet learning objectives and outcomes .
The core curriculum creates a baseline of knowledge for students to operate within the world of cybersecurity. Core classes balance the needs of security engineers to apply secure development concepts coupled with theoretical computer science; all within a framework of ethical best practices.
The Culminating Experience requirement of the Master of Science in Cybersecurity Engineering degree allows students to use what they have learned in their core and elective coursework to demonstrate critical understanding and the ability to both expand upon and apply what they have learned in various ways.
The following courses are required to successfully complete the Bachelor of Science in Chemistry.
The Foundation Level includes very broad competencies that are found in every CSS core course. The Technical Level is a set of broadly important competencies specific to the software engineering and computer science professions, to be developed in every undergraduate CSS education, across the set of required core courses. Competencies specific to the interests and needs of the individual student are achieved in the CSS advanced elective courses.
The learning objectives for the Bachelor of Arts in Applied Computing and the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Software Engineering are described in terms of competencies achieved by students within the CSS programs.
The remaining 5 elective credits must be 300-level or higher
These courses are very challenging . We strongly recommend that you do not take them courses at the same time, and instead spread them out over the course of two years.
These courses can be taken before or after entry into the major.
These courses may overlap with your General Education requirements (A&H, SSc, DIV, etc.), above, as long as they are 300-level or higher.
Thesis
Thesis/Project Final Defense Schedule
This option also requires a lot of time-consuming lab work , so we recommend working proactively with your academic adviser when planning your academic schedule.
This page contains information on the curriculum of the Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry and Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (general and biochemistry options) .
This tri-campus pathway allows students to select from an approved list of courses offered from all three UW campuses: Bothell, Seattle, and Tacoma. The electives at each campus emphasize the strengths found in the programs offered there, and course topics include information assurance policy, secure coding, and networking and systems security.
Thoroughness: Ensures that work is done correctly, completely, on time and to the highest standards.
Time Schedule
Tuition
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Policies & Procedures
Understand ethical issues surrounding cybersecurity, and design and deploy solutions in an ethically sound manner
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 290, 390, or 490 (Special Topics)
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 397 (Internship), 498 (Independent Study), or 499 (Undergraduate Research)
Upper division Chemistry electives
Upper division Chemistry electives with a lab that satisfies the lab requirement:
Upper division STEM electives
User Orientation: Gains understanding of users needs by immersing self in users environment; carefully studies user&#8217;s requirements; puts self in users shoes.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell IAC electives
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UW Seattle IAC electives
UW Tacoma IAC electives
Visit our Admissions page for information on prerequisite coursework.
Visitors
We have found that students find more success when starting with Analytical Chemistry before moving on to Physical Chemistry.
We strongly recommend taking Analytical Chemistry (BCHEM 316+317 and 426) in your Junior year, followed by Physical Chemistry (BCHEM 401, 402, 404) in your senior year, because:
Wireless, RF/Microwave, and Telecommunications
Workday Login
Writing & Speaking: Expresses ideas correctly and convincingly in reports, memos and other forms of written communication
You must complete ten (10) credits (usually two courses) of &#8220;CSS&#8221; or &#8220;BEE&#8221; elective coursework. Of these 10 credits:
You must earn a minimum of 180 credits to complete a degree from UW Bothell.
