Owner: uw-bothell-gender-women-and-sexuality-studies
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/gender-women-sexuality
Title: Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
** GWSS faculty HIGHLY recommend students take both BISGWS 302 & 303. If a student completes both BISGWS 302 and BISGWS 303, 5 credits from these courses can be applied toward the student&#8217;s GWSS coursework requirement.
*Recommended to take prior to GWSS Core Courses
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-2 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-3 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
10 credits of Composition Coursework
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. GWSS Core Courses (GWSS:CORE)
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional GWSS Major Coursework (30 credits)
Additional School of IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Additional School of IAS Requirements
Additional tips for GWSS related fields
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Apply As Undergraduate
B EDUC 461 Educational Implications of Gender Inequality
B HLTH 223 Feminist Approaches to Women&#8217;s Health
B HTLH 420 Women&#8217;s Global Health and Human Rights
B WRIT 133 or B WRIT 134 or ENGL 131 or equivalent (5 credits)
B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141 or equivalent (5 credits)
B. GWSS Coursework
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BACK TO TOP
BCORE 107 Discovery Core I
BCORE 115 Discovery Core II
BCORE 117 Discovery Core II
BIS 162 Race, Gender, and Sexuality through Film & TV
BIS 162 Race, Gender, and Sexuality through Film and Television
BIS 163 The Lives of Objects
BIS 166 Memory, History, and Literature in the United States
BIS 203 Economics of Gender
BIS 219 Politics of Sex Education
BIS 219 The Politics of Sex Education
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality
BIS 223 Introduction to Feminist Film Studies
BIS 224 Introduction to Feminist Studies
BIS 227 Rad Women in the Global South
BIS 249 Introduction to Labor Studies
BIS 290 Interdisciplinary Writing Seminar (5 credits)
BIS 307 Environmental Justice
BIS 310 Women, Culture & Development
BIS 322 Topics in Performance Studies
BIS 324 Gender, Human Rights, and Global Cinema
BIS 341 Topics in the Study of Culture
BIS 351 Topics in American Culture
BIS 366 The Family in U.S. Society
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World
BIS 377 British Literature and the Gothic Novel
BIS 387 Women and American Literature
BIS 431 Issues in Sexual Politics and Cultures
BIS 433 Gender, Work and Family
BIS 438 Prevention and Promotion
BIS 455 Literature and Sexuality
BIS 464 Topics in Advanced Cinema Studies
BIS 470 Art, Politics, and Social Change
BIS 471 Women in Art
BIS 480 International Study Abroad
BIS 486 Studies in Women and Literature
BIS 490 Advanced Seminar
BISGWS 301 Critical Gender and Sexuality Studies (5 credits)
BISGWS 302 Histories and Movements of Gender and Sexuality (5 credits) OR BISGWS 303 Approaches to Feminist Inquiry (5 credits)
BISGWS 302 Histories and Movements of Gender and Sexuality OR BISGWS 303 Approaches to Feminist Inquiry (5 credits)**
BISSTS 420 Race, Gender, Science and Medicine
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
BST 205 Women in STEM
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Planning
Career Resources
Careers
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Collaborate with peers and off campus communities to engage in scholarly and creative activities that intervene in existing debates and create new ways of engaging issues of gender and sexuality.
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Contacts
Courses
Courses in the Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies major focus on the texts, histories, and experiences from across the globe. Visibility is brought to many kinds of feminist knowledge production such as women of color feminism, transfeminism, queer feminism, feminist science and technology studies, and more.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Critically examine the intersection of gender and sexuality with other vectors of identity, power, and privilege such as race, ethnicity, nationality, class, age, and dis/ability.
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Current UW Bothell students in good academic standing (2.0 cumulative GPA) can declare the major using the online Major Declaration Form .
Curriculum
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Death Rituals
Degree Requirements
Develop good relationships with faculty whose work you admire. These relationships are important for your intellectual development, and beneficial should you require letters of recommendation.
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Discovery Core Courses taught by GWSS Faculty
Discuss graduate options with faculty as soon as you start considering graduate school.
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Rad Women of the Global South and Economics of Gender sound exciting to you?
Do you want to explore a career in Non-Profit Organizations, Education or Law?
Doing Gender Justice
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Elective Courses from other UW Bothell Schools
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Faculty Coordinator
Fall Convergence
Find out about GWSS events and more on our Facebook page , Instagram , and Snapchat (@gwssuwb)!
Front & Center: Images of Women in Theatre and Film
Funding
Gender and the Politics of Numbers
Gender Under Construction
Gender, Culture, and Human Rights in India
Gender, Law, & Policy
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies students are passionate about understanding gender and sexuality as they intersect with race, class, ethnicity, nation, ability, cisgender privilege and other forms of power. Students often ask, Whose voices and histories are we not hearing, and why?
Get involved in the campus GWSS community, including but not limited to attending films, guest speakers, the Gender Equity Club, student government, etc.
Girls on Film
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Graduates of Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies major are prepared for careers in community-based non-profit organizations, law, education, social services, the arts, and a variety of other sectors including graduate schools. Employers highly value their ability to work with diverse communities.
Grievances and Complaints
GWSS coursework includes the following approved topics courses.
GWSS coursework must either focus on gender, women and sexuality studies histories, themes, and experience and/or use theoretical frameworks and methods grounded in gender, women, and sexuality studies approaches.
GWSS faculty HIGHLY recommend students take both BISGWS 302 & 303. If a student completes both BISGWS 302 and BISGWS 303, 5 credits from these courses can be applied toward the student&#8217;s GWSS coursework requirement.
GWSS Minor
GWSS Social Media
GWSS Special Topics Courses
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
href="https://www.uwb.edu/career-services/appointments"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/career-planning#interest"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
Human Resources
IAS also offers a minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies .
iasinfo@uw.edu
Illustration by Julio Salgado, commissioned by the #Health4All campaign
In this section
Incoming students can apply for this major when applying for admission to UW Bothell.
Information Technology
Inquire about internship and research opportunities with faculty and/or Career Services.
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practices & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 75 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interdisciplinary Writing Seminar: BIS 290 (5 credits) -Prerequisite of B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141 *
Interested in exploring this major but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to apply
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Major Requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
MyUW
Neil Simpkins
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: See all IAS policies and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
Open mobile menu
Peer Facilitation
Penelope Wood
People
Performing Race and Gender on Film
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Please contact the Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies Faculty Coordinator if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about the Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies major.
Please see your Academic Advisor to have these courses count toward your major requirements.
Policy Studies (MA)
PRACTICE
Prerequisites
Privacy
PROFESSION
Prospective Students
Psychology
PURPOSE
Queer & Trans Cinema
Quick Links
Race, Gender and Sexuality in Museum Archives
Race, Space, & Liberation
Recommended preparation
Research Librarian
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Revolution & Feminism in the Americas
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Save your coursework in your portfolio, and begin thinking about the portfolio in relation to your career interests and/or goals.
Scholarship
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Sex Work, Human Trafficking, & Social Justice
Situate and analyze gender and sexuality at local, national, and transnational levels.
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring Festival
Staff
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students choosing this major will find it especially helpful to have completed college coursework in feminist studies, history and culture, sociology, or literature.
Students who entered the Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies (GWSS) major prior to Autumn 2024 have different requirements. Please see your Academic Advisor for questions and academic planning.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-300)"
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
The Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies (GWSS) major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to examine social and political realities shaped by gender, sexuality, and power. Students approach topics from transnational and intersectional perspectives, enabling students to analyze and address issues of gender, sexuality, and social difference at personal, historical, institutional, and structural levels.
The Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives . Students majoring or minoring in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies will be able to:
The Power of Feminist Writing
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
There are no official prerequisites for the GWSS major.
Thesis Work
Think critically about the operation of gender and sexuality at personal, institutional, and structural levels.
Time Schedule
Tips for exploring graduate school
TOTAL = 75 Credits
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
Undertake critical interdisciplinary research that understands the role of cultural norms and assumptions especially, but not limited to, gender and sexuality in knowledge production.
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Women in Film
Workday Login
Write and communicate clearly about feminist theories and manifestations of power and resistance.
