Owner: uw-bothell-psychology:pathway:200-level-psychology-courses-option
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/psychology
Title: Psychology - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

(8 credits, Summer)
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
*IAS will maintain the list of courses
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-2 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-3 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-4 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-5 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
18115 Campus Way NE
200 Level Psychology Courses * (10 credits)
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. Psychology core courses
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Also, some courses offered under BIS 316 (special topics), BIS 449 (advanced topics), or BIS 490 (senior seminar), particularly BIS 490: Empathy and BIS 490: Program Evaluation .
Although psychology will be applied/applicable in a wide variety of IAS courses, and a wide variety of IAS courses will be applicable to psychology and psychologists, we offer a solid range of courses that specifically introduce, develop, and apply psychological theory and research.
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Apply As Undergraduate
B BIO 310 Brain & Behavior
B BIO 320 Behavioral Neuroscience
B BIO 394 Special Topics in Neuroscience
B BIO 480 Neurobiology
B EDUC 451 Early Childhood Development
B EDUC 458 Emerging Adulthood
B EDUC 481 Adolescent Development
B WRIT 133, B WRIT 134, ENGL 131, or equivalent composition course
B WRIT 135, ENGL 141, or equivalent advanced composition course
B. Research Methods courses
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BACK TO TOP
BIS 115 Digital Cultures
BIS 140 Numbers in News Media
BIS 162 Race, Gender, and Sexuality through Film & TV
BIS 165 Introduction to Ethnic Studies
BIS 170 Introduction to Psychology
BIS 170 Introduction to Psychology (or PSYCH 101 equivalent)
BIS 170: Introductory Psychology (taken prior to entering the major)
BIS 180 Introduction to Human Geography
BIS 181 Introduction to Sociology
BIS 193 Introduction to Philosophy
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics (or B MATH 215, B BUS 215, STAT 220, STAT 290, or equivalent introductory statististics course)
BIS 216 Introduction to Cultural Studies
BIS 219 Politics of Sex Education
BIS 220 Developmental Psychology
BIS 220: Developmental Psychology
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality (equivalent to PSYCH 210)
BIS 225 Social Psychology
BIS 225 Social Psychology (overlapping with PSYCH 245)
BIS 225: Social Psychology
BIS 226 Foundations of US Social Services
BIS 235 Critical Media Literacy
BIS 238 Language, Identity, Culture, and Power
BIS 249 Introduction to Labor Studies
BIS 252 Politics of Science
BIS 255 Critical Diversity Studies
BIS 256 Intro to African American Studies
BIS 257 Intro to Asian American Studies
BIS 258 Intro to Latinx Studies
BIS 270 Abnormal Psychology
BIS 270: Abnormal Psychology
BIS 270: Abnormal Psychology should be taken before BIS 422: Clinical Psychology . These courses are paired and meant to build upon one another. Therefore, to benefit from the instruction students should take the more basic course prior to taking the more advanced course.
BIS 279 Introduction to Law & Society
BIS 282 Introduction to Globalization
BIS 307 Environmental Justice
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research Methods (min 2.0 grade)
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research- min. 2.0 grade (5 credits)
BIS 316 Topics in Psychology (can be taken maximum 3 times, different topics)
BIS 317 Language, Society, and Cultural Knowledge
BIS 336 History of Mass Incarceration in the US
BIS 337: Risk and Resilience
BIS 348 Industrial and Organizational Psychology
BIS 349 Personality Psychology
BIS 349: Personality Psychology
BIS 352 Mapping Communities
BIS 352: Mapping Communities
BIS 353 Human Rights in Theory and Practice
BIS 364 Realities & Representations of Adolescent Development
BIS 365 Institutions and Social Change (formally BISSTA 304)
BIS 365: Institutions and Social Change
BIS 367 Ethics and Society (formally BISSTA 359)
BIS 367: Ethics in Society
BIS 368 Asian American Psychology
BIS 369 Indigenous Psychology and Health
BIS 380 Bioethics
BIS 384 Health, Medicine and Society
BIS 422 Clinical Psychology
BIS 422: Clinical Psychology
BIS 422: Clinical Psychology (take after BIS 270)
BIS 438 Prevention and Promotion
BIS 438: Prevention & Promotion (take after BIS 337)
BIS 438: Prevention and Promotion
BIS 445 Meanings and Realities of Inequality
BIS 445: Meanings and Reality of Inequality
BIS 448 Social Policy
BIS 449 Advanced Topics in Psychology
BIS 449: Advanced Topics in Psychology
BIS 450 Decolonizing Psychology
BIS 456 Climate Anxiety, Grief, and Resilience
BIS 483 Community Organizing
BISAES 305 Power, Dissent, and American Culture
BISAES 367 Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration
BISGST 303 History and Globalization
BISGWS 301 Critical Gender & Sexuality Studies
BISLEP 302 Policy Analysis
BISPSY 337 Risk and Resilience (If not taken as a core)
BISPSY 337 Risk and Resilience (not offered regularly)
BISPSY 337: Risk & Resilience
BISPSY 343 Community Psychology (Autumn Quarter)
BISPSY 343 Community Psychology (if not taken as a core)
BISPSY 343: Community Psychology should be taken before taking any other 300-level psychology course or 400-level psychology courses. This course introduces students to a community psychology perspective that is incorporated in all specialized and upper-level courses.
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology (if not taken as a core)
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology (Winter Quarter)
BISPSY 348: Cultural Psychology
BISPSY 350 Intergroup Relations (if not taken as a core)
BISPSY 350 Intergroup Relations (Spring Quarter)
BISPSY 489 Projects in Psychology
BISPSY 489: Projects in Community Psychology
BISPSY 489: Projects in Psychology
BISSTS 231 Genes, Genomes and Heredity
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project
BPOLST 594 Research Design is the default means of satisfying the Research Methods requirement. (You may petition for other options, including BPOLST 520 Internship, or BPOLST 598 Directed Research in Advanced Quantitative Methods). The course’s goal is to develop students’ own research questions and explore appropriate research methods for addressing these questions. Readings and discussion provide grounding in research designs, including experimental, longitudinal, cross-sectional, case-study, and participatory action research. Special attention will be devoted to planning and developing student capstone projects.
C. 200-level Psychology courses (10 credits)
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Planning
Career Resources
Careers
Check BIS 316: Special Topics in Psychology and BIS 449: Advanced Topics in Psychology for additional psychology courses that are not offered on a regular basis.
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Community Engagement
Community Organizing/Community Development Path
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Courses
Courses in the Psychology major focus on theory and practice in psychology. Students also learn research methods in various fields including sociology, public health, anthropology, cultural studies, and social justice.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Curriculum
D. Upper Division Psychology courses (15 credits)
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Degree Requirements
Develop an understanding of human development and well-being within an ecological framework.
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Abnormal Psychology and Intergroup Relations sound exciting to you?
Do you want to explore a career in mental health counseling or community development?
Draw upon the strengths and perspectives of diverse stakeholders in defining and solving social problems.
E. Psychology electives (15 credits)
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Elective Credits
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Examples of coursework pathways emphasizing particular areas within psychology:
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Fall Convergence
Foundational courses in psychology:
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Programs in Washington State
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Graduates have pursued careers in human services, community development, mental health, family and youth programs, counseling, program evaluation, community arts, and public relations.
Graduation Programs in Washington State
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
href="https://psych.uw.edu/undergraduate/life-after-uw/graduate-school/programs-in-washington"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/career-services/appointments"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/career-planning#interest"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
href="https://www.washington.edu/undergradresearch/find/"
Human Resources
iasinfo@uw.edu
If you are NOT a current UW Bothell student, please contact the UW Bothell Admissions team at uwbinfo@uw.edu .
If you would like to explore the major, consider taking one of the below courses. Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
If you’re a current UW Bothell student interested in applying to the Psychology major, you can find more information on our How to apply page.
In this section
Information Technology
Integrate knowledge across disciplines and contexts in ways that respect different approaches to understanding human development and well-being.
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 70 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to apply
Learn more about how to conduct an Internship
Learn more about how to enroll in Directed Research
Learn more about how to participate in Study Abroad program
Learn more about the capstone research process
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Listed below are three possible coursework pathways within the major that, along with other elective courses related to particular problems, communities, or settings, would help students acquire and articulate a clear skill set and knowledge base for different career interests. These are not meant to be the only pathway options, and some pathways may combine various interests. For example, students interested in early intervention for youth might want to combine and tailor the first and second, or the second and third pathways.
Major Requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
Mental Health/Human Services Path
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
MyUW
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note that not all psychology courses have the name psychology in the title. For example, the following courses do not include “psychology” in their title: BISPSY 337: Risk and Resilience ; BISPSY 350: Intergroup Relations ; BIS 438: Prevention and Promotion ; Also, some courses that are not focused on psychology per se will be very valuable for Psychology majors, for instance BIS 352: Mapping Communities .
Note: See all IAS policies and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
One Psychology Core Course &#8211; min. 2.0 grade (5 credits)
Open mobile menu
Other options
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Policy Studies (MA)
PRACTICE
Prerequisites
Prevention and Health Promotion Path
Privacy
PROFESSION
Prospective Students
Psychology
Psychology - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Psychology Electives * (15 credits)
Psychology is a dynamic major that offers students various pathways for academic and professional development. Students should take courses that provide a foundation for and a broad perspective on psychology. But the field also draws from theory and practice in sociology, community development, social ecology, public health, anthropology, cultural and performance studies, public policy, social work, and social justice movements. Students should aim to define and develop their own interdisciplinary perspectives and contextual approaches for the study of social problems and the promotion of people’s well-being. Students have freedom to define the major for their own goals and interests, but that means they also have the responsibility for making it meaningful.
Psychology students are passionate about understanding the well-being of individuals and communities. Students interested in examining social problems will thrive within the Psychology major.
PURPOSE
Quick Links
Ready to apply?
Recommended preparation
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
See a description of current courses being offered.
See your Academic Advisor if you have transferred in one of the 200 level Psychology Courses
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring Festival
Staff
Start thinking about what courses will be required by or desirable to graduate programs or employers, and plan your schedule accordingly. Many courses offered only once a year (e.g., developmental psychology or personality psychology) may be required for admission to particular graduate programs. Some 400-level courses will provide students the chance to do significant integrative projects that will make grad school applications competitive (e.g., BISCP 489, BIS 438, or BIS 490). These kinds of courses also provide the kinds of interactions with faculty that ground effective letters of recommendation.
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students have some choices about which psychology courses they take and the areas of psychology they emphasize (e.g., clinical or developmental), but we recommend that students aim for at least 4 courses in foundational psychology (these are listed in the next section).
Students must complete the following prerequisites, with a minimum 2.0 grade, to declare the Bachelor of Arts in Psychology major.
Students wishing to receive elective credit for courses taken in other departments (either at UW Bothell or UW Seattle) must fill out a Petition for Outside Coursework and obtain faculty approval.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-300)"
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
The Capstone is an independent research project intended to be the culmination of the degree program. Building on the networking and research done in the Practicum as well as the planning and design work from the previous quarter, students will work with a faculty advisor to complete and write up their own research. Depending on the nature of the research question and the kind of partners or collaborators students engage, the capstone manuscript may take different formats. In general, capstone manuscripts will include a description of the policy problem, literature review, description of research methods, review of research findings, and conclusions or implications.
The major curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives . Additionally, students taking courses and/or majoring in Psychology:
The Psychology major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to study social problems and improve the well-being of people in their communities. While the field draws heavily from psychology, it also draws from texts and research in sociology, community development, ecology, public health, anthropology, cultural and performance studies, public policy, social work, and social justice movements. Through community based research, community psychologists produce knowledge that can inform social policies, social service work, helping practices, and community change.
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
There are many options available to students when it comes to choosing electives. The first place to look is at the BPOLST elective offerings, located for the year on the current courses page. Students can also take graduate level coursework in other degrees, or 400-level classes that are relevant to their field of study. To find other UWB courses, please refer to the UWB Time Schedule . To find courses on the Seattle campus, please refer to the UWS Time Schedule .
Thesis Work
Time Schedule
Tips for choosing and planning courses
Tips for determining what courses to take and when to take them:
Tips for exploring graduate school
Total = 70 Credits
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
Undergraduate research
Understand, evaluate and participate in the development of effective intervention, prevention, and health promotion strategies and programs for individuals, small groups, and communities.
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
Upper Division Psychology Courses * (15 Credits)
Utilize interdisciplinary methods and approaches to community action and research.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
We strongly recommend that students in the Psychology major take at least 4 of the following courses (in addition to BISPSY 343: Community Psychology ), and probably more if they plan on graduate study in some area of psychology. Again, it works best if they are taken sequentially (200-level before 300-level before 400-level).
When possible, take 200-level psychology courses before taking 300-level or 400-level psychology courses. 200-level psychology courses (e.g., BIS 270: Abnormal Psychology , BIS 220: Developmental Psychology ) are basic courses meant to provide foundational knowledge that is helpful for doing well in more advanced courses (e.g., BISPSY 337: Risk and Resilience , BIS 422: Clinical Psychology , or other advanced topics courses).
When possible, take the required methods course early ( BIS 312: Approaches to Social Research Methods ). This course provides necessary knowledge for understanding 300- and 400-level specialized courses (e.g., BISPSY 337: Risk and Resilience ; BIS 349: Personality Psychology ; BISPSY 489: Projects in Psychology ), and should ideally be taken prior to the last 3 quarters in the major.
Why Policy Studies?
Work collaboratively across diverse groups and organizations through Community-Based experience and internships.
Workday Login
