Owner: uw-bothell-csse-information-assurance-and-cybersecurity:pathway:information-assurance-and-cybersecurity-iac-option
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/stem/undergraduate/majors/bscsse/curriculum
Title: CSSE Curriculum - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics

Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 397 (Internship), 498 (Independent Study), or 499 (Undergraduate Research)
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 290, 390, or 490 (Special Topics)
300-400 Level Electives (15 credits / usually 3 courses)
May be additional CSS electives or electives from other subject areas
These courses may overlap with your General Education requirements (A&H, SSc, DIV, etc.), above, as long as they are 300-level or higher.
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) option
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) is a Computer Science & Software Engineering pathway that covers the creation and management of safe and secure systems. All organizations—large or small, public or private—rely on secure systems for individual and organizational privacy and security. The IAC option prepares students to create, deploy, and manage systems that ensure the security of any organization.
This tri-campus pathway allows students to select from an approved list of courses offered from all three UW campuses: Bothell, Seattle, and Tacoma. The electives at each campus emphasize the strengths found in the programs offered there, and course topics include information assurance policy, secure coding, and networking and systems security.
Declaring the IAC option
After admission into the general CSSE major, you can contact the advising office at cssadv@uw.edu to switch into the IAC option. Please include your name and student ID number.
Requirements
IAC-option students take the same core courses as those of the general CSSE major, but replace the 25 credits of “CSS Electives” with the courses below:
CSS 310: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity
Minimum 15 credits (3 courses) of elective coursework from the lists below. Only one networking class (CSS 432, INFO 314, or T INFO 250; marked with an asterisk * ) may be taken.
Minimum of 5 additional credits (usually 1 course) of 200-level or higher CSS Elective coursework in any topic.
UW Seattle IAC electives
INFO 312: Enterprise Risk Management
* INFO 314: Computer Networks and Distributed Applications
INFO 415: Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
UW Bothell IAC electives
CSS 337 Secure Systems
CSS 411 Computer Technology and Public Policy
CSS 415 Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
* CSS 432 Computer Networking
UW Tacoma IAC electives
* T INFO 250 Foundations of Information Networking
T INFO 441 Network Security
T INFO 442 Computer Security
T INFO 443 Digital Forensics
Petition
Computing-related courses that are not included on the core or elective requirements lists are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you wish to use as an elective, you may submit a petition to request for the course to count.
