Owner: uw-bothell-developmental-and-youth-studies:pathway:education-studies-elementary-education-option
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/education/undergraduate/developmental-and-youth-studies/degree-requirements
Title: Degree Requirements - School of Educational Studies

[Supplemental official source] Degree Requirements
10
100
2
3
4
40
5
6
60
8
80
Academic Advising
Admissions
Applied Art
Applied Experience Guidelines & Policies
As outlined by the State of Washington Professional Educator Standards Board , Washington state elementary school teachers must be certified to teach and must hold an elementary education endorsement. To be eligible for the elementary endorsement, students must complete college-level coursework which demonstrates their knowledge and understanding of the subject areas elementary school teachers cover in their classrooms: Social Studies, English Language Arts, Mathematics, Science and Art.
B EDUC 170 Math for Elementary Teachers (NSc)
B EDUC 205 Education & Equity in the United States
B EDUC 205 Education & Equity in the United States (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 210 Teaching & Learning in a Multicultural Society
B EDUC 210 Teaching & Learning in a Multicultural Society (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 220 Education and Society (SSc)
B EDUC 230 Culture Knowledge and Education (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 240 Science & Engineering for an Ethical and Just Society with Lab (NSc, DIV)
B EDUC 241 Time in Socio-Ecological Systems: Sun, Moon, Clocks, and Contaminants with Lab (NSc, DIV)
B EDUC 242 U.S. History and the Enduring War For Control of K-12 Curriculum: From Invasion to Insurrection (SSc, DIV, W)
B EDUC 250 Topics in Education & Popular Culture: Adolescent Literacy, Graphic Novels, and Young Adult Fiction (A&H)
B EDUC 250 Topics in Education & Popular Culture: Banned Books & Controversial Topics in Children’s Literature & Young Adult Fiction (A&H)
B EDUC 250 Topics in Education and Popular Culture (A&H)
B EDUC 255 Critical Diversity Studies (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 295 Gathering, Analyzing, and Using Data in Education (DIV, RSN)
B EDUC 340 STEAM Education (3 credits)
B EDUC 495 Applied Experience
B EDUC 495 Applied Experience is designed to:
B EDUC 499 Capstone Project
B EDUC 499 Capstone Project (5 credits)
B WRIT 133 Composition Stretch II (C)
B WRIT 134 Composition (C)
be a hands-on, community-based learning and professional-development experience
BIS 164 Introduction to World Literature (A&H, DIV)
BIS 175 Introduction to American Government (SSc)
BIS 180 Introduction to Human Geography (SSc)
BIS 200/B BUS 220 Introduction to Microeconomics (SSc, RSN)
BIS 203 Economics of Gender (SSc, RSN, DIV)
BIS 206 Engaging Literary Arts (A&H)
BIS 218 The Power of Maps (SSc)
BIS 242 Environmental Geography SSc/NSc
BIS 280 U.S. Political Processes (SSc)
BIS 301 Narrative Forms (A&H)
BIS 361 Studies in American Literature (A&H)
BIS 370 Nineteenth-Century American Literature (A&H)
BIS 371 Twentieth-Century American Literature (A&H)
BIS 377 British Literature and the Gothic Novel (A&H)
BIS 379 American Ethnic Literatures (A&H, SSc, DIV)
BIS 387 Women and American Literature (A&H)
BIS 388 Literature in Translation (A&H)
BIS 389 American Indian Literature (A&H, SSc)
BIS 407 Children’s Literature and Reader Response Criticism (A&H)
BIS 455 Literature & Sexuality (A&H, SSc)
BIS 481 Modernism, Postmodernism, and American Literature (A&H)
BIS 486 Studies in Women and Literature (A&H)
BIS 487 Topics in American Literature (A&H)
Career Pathways & Academic Connections
Career Services
Child & Youth Development Minor
Community-Engaged Learning & Research
Contact Us
Credits
Degree Completion Requirements
Degree Requirements
Developmental & Youth Studies
Developmental & Youth Studies majors are expected to participate in learning experiences in community-based settings to gain valuable insight into possible roles and career opportunities in education-related fields. To accomplish this, the Developmental & Youth Studies major requires the completion of an applied learning experience, B EDUC 495 Applied Experience.
Developmental & Youth Studies majors build a portfolio which encourages them to reflect on School of Educational Studies Core Themes and make connections between what they have learned in their coursework and accomplished in Applied Experience. Students begin their capstone by applying what they have learned in their coursework in an Applied Experience placement, and complete their portfolio in B EDUC 499.
Diversity Studies Minor
Dual Endorsement Options
Education & Society Minor
Education Studies: Elementary Education Option
Educational Advocacy & Community Engagement Minor
Educational Studies
Elementary Education Academic Breadth Subject Areas & Courses
Elementary Education Endorsement Academic Breadth Requirements
Employment Opportunities
encourage self-reflection on the challenges and opportunities of education in diverse settings
English Language Arts: Composition or Writing
English Language Arts: Literature
Expand Navigation
For example, if a student took HIST& 146 US History I, the student can petition that the course take the place of B EDUC 242 U.S. History and the Enduring War For Control of K-12 Curriculum.
Frequently Asked Questions
Goodlad Institute for Educational Renewal
Graduate
Hours Requirement
In the final course in the Developmental & Youth Studies major capstone sequence, students build a portfolio that showcases their critical reflection and learning related to School of Educational Studies core themes. Students are encouraged to collect artifacts (previous course papers or projects) relating to these themes and to think and write reflectively on them throughout their course of study.
Information for International Students
integrate the knowledge and skills students have cultivated in Developmental & Youth Studies courses and apply elements of the School of Educational Studies Major core themes
Internships
LEDE PEAB
M.Ed. with Critical Educational Change and Leadership (CECL) Concentration
M.Ed. with Educating for Critical Race Theory (E-CRiT) Concentration
Major Concentrations
Overview
Quarter Total
Read about the applied experience requirements, guidelines, and policies .
Resources for choosing an Applied Experience placement
See Elementary Education Option requirements effective Autumn 2025 for the full list Elementary Education Option course requirements. Courses with a minimum grade of 2.0 (C letter grade) satisfy Academic Breadth requirements .
Some academic requirements related to BEDUC 495 must be completed for each quarter enrolled–see the BEDUC 495 Applied Experience syllabus for details.
Student Clubs & Organizations
Students will receive support and guidance on all certification requirements from academic advisors, field placement coordinators, and field instructors.
Teaching & Learning Minor
The course may be taken for 2-5 credits each quarter until the number of required hours is fulfilled (see table below).
The Elementary Education Option requires that students complete a student teaching practicum, along with a practicum in an English to Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) classroom OR a practicum in a Special Education classroom. International students with a visa, other than F-1 visa holders, should consult an immigration attorney to determine their eligibility for completing these required practica. F-1 visa holders will need to plan and apply for Curricular Practical Training (CPT) prior to beginning these required practica. If you have any questions, please contact the International Student Services (ISS) office.
The total number of hours required for 5 credits of BEDUC 495 Applied Experience is 100. *See COVID-19 announcement below*
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Policies & Petitions
Weekly Hours
