Owner: uw-bothell-business-administration-marketing
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/business/undergraduate/bachelor-of-business-administration/marketing
Title: Marketing Option and Concentration - School of Business

(1 credit)
(4 credits)
(Description forthcoming.)
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
[Supplemental official source] Diversity Designated Course
[Supplemental official source] Prerequisite Courses
[Supplemental official source] Prerequisites
[Supplemental official source] Writing Designated Course
**AP Statistics score not accepted
*AP Calculus score of 3, 4, or 5 accepted
*AP Language/Literature Exam scores not accepted
*AP Macroeconomics score of 3, 4, or 5 accepted
*AP Microeconomics score of 3, 4, or 5 accepted
*Higher level business statistics accepted
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
10 credits – Complete 2 courses from this list:
10 credits from the following:
15 credits – Complete 3 courses from this list:
18115 Campus Way NE
18807 Beardslee Blvd, Suite 210
20 credits
30 credits
425.352.3427
425.352.5000
425.352.5394
5 credits
90 Credits
A diverse student body is an essential educational resource offered by the University of Washington Bothell. Students and faculty educate each other, in the classroom and in many informal settings; they challenge one another’s assumptions, they broaden one another’s range of experience, and they teach one another to see the world from varied perspectives.
A project-based applied learning practicum focused on introducing students to the field of management consulting. Designed to serve an integrative role, bringing together the functional disciplines and components of the MBA curriculum in a summative project-based consulting experience.
About
Academic Advising
Academic Affairs
Academic Calendar
Accessibility
Accounting Option
Accounting Profession
Accounting Profession (1 credit)
Accounting Professional Development
Accounting Theory
Activities &#038; Recreation Center
Additional Writing
Additional Writing - Advising
Administrative Divisions
Admissions
Admissions & Aid
Admitted students must complete a minimum of 60 transferable quarter credits (80 preferred), with a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of at least a 2.0 and also have a cumulative business prerequisite GPA of at least a 2.5, prior to beginning their business studies at UW Bothell. These credits must include all of the following prerequisite courses (with a minimum grade of 2.0 in each):
Advanced Accounting and Analytics
Advanced Business Law
Advanced Composition
Advanced Leadership Models
Advanced Managerial Accounting
Advanced Managerial Accounting (4 credits)
Advanced Quantitative Methods
Advanced Quantitative Methods (4 credits)
Advanced Taxation
Advising
Advising resources
Advisory boards
All UW Bothell
Alumni
Analyzes economic structures and trends in nations across the globe and examines their implications for business decision-making. Examines how these economies are influenced by political, legal, regulatory, and technological issues in a global context.
Any passing grade (0.7 or higher) is acceptable for the “W” requirement. Courses may not be taken on the satisfactory/not satisfactory (S/NS) grading option.
Apply As Undergraduate
Apply Now
Appointments & drop-ins
Areas of Inquiry
At a Glance
Autumn
Awards
B ACCT 500:
B ACCT 501:
B ACCT 502 :
B ACCT 503:
B ACCT 505:
B ACCT 506:
B ACCT 510:
B ACCT 568:
B BUS 220/BIS 200
B BUS 221/BIS 201
B BUS 501
B BUS 502
B BUS 503
B BUS 504
B BUS 505
B BUS 506
B BUS 507
B BUS 509
B BUS 510
B BUS 512
B BUS 531
B MATH 144
B WRIT 135* (must be designated (C) composition)
BA& 240
Bachelor in Business Administration
Bachelor in Economics
Bachelor of Business Administration
Bachelor of Economics
Bachelor of Science in Economics degree
BBUS 300 – Organizational Behavior, Ethics and Inclusivity, Diversity Designated Course
BBUS 307 – Business Writing, Writing Designated Course
BBUS 310 – Managerial Economics (BMATH 144, STMATH 124, or MATH 112)
BBUS 320 – Marketing Management
BBUS 340 – Operations & Project Management
BBUS 350 – Business Finance (310)
BBUS 421 – Consumer Marketing (320)
BBUS 423 – Market Intelligence (320)
BBUS 426 – International Marketing (320)
BBUS 427 – Entrepreneurial Marketing (320)
BBUS 429 – Special Topics in Marketing (320)
BBUS 431 – Electronic Marketing (320)
BBUS 438 – Marketing Management Lab (320, and one of the following: 421, 423, 426, 427, 429, or 431)
BBUS 445 – Merchandising Acquisition (300)
BBUS 446 – Strategic Retail Promotion (300, 320)
BBUS 464 – New Product Marketing (320)
BBUS 470 – Business Policy & Strategic Management
BBUS 480 – Global Environment of Business
BBUS 490 – Special Topics in Business (300, 310) , BBUS 490 may or may not count depending on course topic; see your adviser before registering.
BBUS 490 – Special Topics in Business (300, 310) , BBUS 490 may or may not count depending on course topic; see your advisor before registering.
BBUS 491 – Business Consulting . Only counts when approved for concentration; see your advisor before registering.
BBUS 491 – Business Consulting . Only counts when approved for option; see your advisor before registering.
BBUS 497 – Internship
BBUS 499 – Undergraduate Research. Only counts when approved for concentration; see your advisor before registering.
BBUS 499 – Undergraduate Research. Only counts when approved for option; see your advisor before registering.
Beardslee Building (UWBB)
Because the Bachelor Degree in Business Administration is an upper division program, students begin the program after completing prerequisite coursework. Transfer students applying to UW Bothell as Business majors and UW Bothell students declaring a Business major must have completed the majority of following courses at the time of application. All prerequisite coursework must be completed prior to matriculation (i.e., the start of studies at UW Bothell).
Become a Mentor
Before you can register for the capstone courses, you must complete all core courses and meet with your advisor to file a graduation application .
BIS 215 (previously BIS 315), B BUS 215, BMATH 215, or STMATH 341
BIS 215 (previously BIS 315), or B BUS 215, or BMATH 21, or STMATH 341
Bothell, WA 98011
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358500
Box 358533
Build your expertise. Advance your career. Become a leader in accounting.
Build your own path with any five electives (20 credits).
Business Communications
Business Consulting Course
Business Intelligence and AI
Calculus
Campus Life
Campus Living
Campus Safety
Campus Sustainability
Canvas
Capstone Courses
Career Services
Certificate in Accounting
Choosing courses
Close mobile menu
COMMON TRANSFER COURSE NUMBERING
Community Engagement
Commuter Services
Concentration Course Numbers & Names
Considers some of the most important economic aspects of a business enterprise including demand and cost analysis, pricing strategy (including auctions), and the economics of information. Highlights the usefulness of game theory.
Contact
Contact us
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core Courses
Core Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Corporate Financial Reporting
Corporate Financial Reporting (4 credits)
Corporate Governance
Counseling Center
Course activities should encourage thinking critically about topics such as power, inequality, marginality, and social movements, and support effective cross-cultural communication skills.
Course Descriptions
Course Schedule
Course Type
Courses
COURSES
Courses that count toward the additional writing requirement are available in a range of subject areas. Although you shouldn’t wait until the last minute to meet the W-course requirement, it was originally intended that at least some of your writing-intensive courses should be courses in your major, providing you with writing instruction and practice in your chosen area of study.
Courses that fulfill the diversity requirement focus on cross-cultural analysis and communication; and historical and contemporary inequities such as those associated with race, ethnicity, class, sex and gender, sexual orientation, nationality, ability, religion, creed, age, and socioeconomic status.
Courses that meet diversity requirements at other schools may not necessarily meet the UW Bothell requirement. If you believe you’ve satisfied this requirement with a transfer course and have not received credit, please connect with your advisor.
Credits : 64 total (44 core &#8211; listed below, 20 electives)
Cross-campus registration
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Business
Dean’s Advisory Board
Declaring your major
Degree Programs
Digital Marketing
Dining Services
Direct First-Year Admit (DFA)
Directions & Maps
Directory
Diversity
Diversity - Advising
Diversity, Equity &#038; Inclusion
Don Whitney Scholarship for Graduate Students
Donor Excellence Scholarship
Duration : Complete in 18 months or set your own pace
Duration: 12 – 24 months
ECON 200
ECON 201
ECON& 201
ECON& 202
Effective writing is one of the most valuable skills you’ll develop at UW. It’s essential for success in your courses, future career, and graduate or professional programs. To build this skill, you must complete at least 10 credits of writing-intensive (“W”) courses, in addition to the 5-credit English composition requirement.
Elective
Elective (4 &#8211; 8 credits)
Elective (4 credits)
Elective (4-8 credits)
Electives
Electives can be taken any quarter, including Summer. Electives vary per program. Course availability varies per quarter.
Email Us
Emergency Blog
ENG& 102
ENGL 111, 121, 131, 182, 197, 198, 199, 281, 282, 297, 298, 299, 381, or 382
English Composition
Enterprise IT Management
Entrepreneurial Finance
Entrepreneurship Concentration
Ethics Conference
Evening classes with select options for daytime classes.
Events
Examines factors associated with leader and team effectiveness using high- and low-element exercises and lecture/discussion. Introduces management analysis and decision-making using the case study method. Three-day off-campus retreat followed by two evening class meetings on campus.
Examines financial challenges common to new ventures, and discusses each participant in the venture arena. Explores alternative sources of private equity for new ventures.
Examines how AI and data analytics shape managerial decision‑making and organizational strategy. Covers business intelligence for collecting, analyzing, and visualizing data to produce actionable insights. Introduces core AI concepts—machine learning, natural language processing, and generative AI—and their applications across business functions. Students work with modern analytics tools, dashboards, and cloud-based AI platforms to support data-driven practices. Emphasizes interpreting analytics for business impact and understanding the ethical and governance considerations of responsible AI use.
Examines strategies and state-of-the art analytical methods that support profitable new product introductions.
Examines the operations function in service and manufacturing organizations from a managerial perspective. Key topics include strategic and design decisions relating to operations and processes, quality management, lean systems, inventory control and supply chain management. Uses blend of theory, cases, analytical techniques, and business vignettes.
Examines the theory and processes of negotiation. Includes a broad spectrum of negotiation problems.
Executive Education
Expand Navigation
Explores intangible assets and &#8220;meso&#8221; issues that underpin organizational effectiveness. Topics include organizational phenomena (cultures, structures, routines, capabilities, life cycles), intellectual capital, and knowledge management (creating, maintaining, and diffusing knowledge). Projects require application of best practices to personally relevant situations.
Explores the critical challenges facing businesses in becoming more environmentally sustainable without forgoing traditional indicators of success. Topics drawn from current major concerns related to environment and sustainability, such as climate, water, toxics, transportation, buildings, and food. Application of economics, strategy, marketing, manufacturing and technology, finance, organization theory, and accounting.
Explores the variety of corporate control and governance structures around the world. Examines important governance practices and their impact on corporate strategy and competitiveness.
Facilitates the development of a customer orientation and explores the use of the marketing mix of product, price, place and promotion to create, communicate and deliver value to targeted customer segments. Explains how marketing strategy is developed, implemented, and controlled in the marketplace.
Facilities
Faculty
Fall
FAQs
Finance Option and Concentration
Financial Accounting Seminar
Financial Aid
Financial Management
Financial Management (4)
Financial Reporting and Analysis
Financial Reporting and Analysis (4)
Financial Statement Analysis
Financial Statement Analysis (4 credits)
Focus on team leadership, strategic change, and organizational growth.
Focuses on critical issues for aligning information technology resources with the enterprise. Demonstrates the role of company mission and objectives on decisions regarding project approval and implementation. Topics include: project due diligence; technology process management; technology agility; enterprise system implementation, legal and ethical aspects, and contemporary issues.
Focuses on leadership and managerial effectiveness. Builds upon students&#8217; knowledge of factors which influence leadership behavior and the critical personal and interpersonal associated with leadership. At a two-day, overnight retreat, students engage in an organizational simulation and receive feedback from faculty and mentors.
Focuses on major top management decisions, emphasizing how competitive advantage is created and maintained through planning and strategy. Using readings and cases, demonstrates importance in diverse industries of external environments (customers, competitors, science and technology, laws), organizational phenomena (structure, processes, decision making), and an international perspective.
Focuses on making written and spoken communications effective and authentic, using case studies of several communication challenges that occur in organizations. Teaches how successful communication is both intentional and strategic; and how to formulate communication goals, understand your audience, and use the correct approach in each situation.
Focuses on understanding design, data analysis techniques, and interpretation of market segmentation studies, customer satisfaction studies, user experience studies, product positioning research, and recommender system. Students have hands-on experience designing research projects and deriving marketing insights from various data analysis exercise and projects.
For example, if you&#8217;re a transfer student completing the remaining prerequisites in summer quarter, you can still apply to UW Bothell in spring with the intention of starting Business classes in fall quarter, so long as you&#8217;ve completed all the prerequisites before fall quarter begins.
For most majors (including those in the School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences), writing courses may be additional courses from the English Composition list , or any courses designated in the quarterly Time Schedule with the comment “Writing.” The easiest way to look for W courses is to use the MyPlan course search tool.
For new students
For postbaccalaureate students
For questions regarding your submitted online application, please contact our program team.
For transfer students
Forensic Accounting
Format : In-person evening classes, weekend electives with some courses offered online.
Full-time or Part-time tracks
General education requirements
General Electives (any 300/400 level UW courses)
General MBA
Get a Mentor
Get Updates
Give
Global Business
Global Business (4)
Global Study Tour
Grades required
Graduate
Graduate Programs
Health &#038; Wellness Resource Center
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
How to apply
How to choose a major
Human Resource Management
Human Resources
In college, writing goes beyond summarizing—it’s about developing your own ideas and arguments through research and analysis. Much of your learning will happen through this process. As you write, focus on organizing your thoughts clearly, revising your work, and learning from instructor feedback. Strong writing will also sharpen your analytical and communication skills.
In this section
Independent Study Projects
Information Technology
Internships
Jobs
Join an Info Session
Leadership
Leadership & Strategic Innovation Option
Leadership and Ethical Decision Making
Leadership and Ethical Decision Making (4)
Leadership History
Leadership MBA
Leadership Social Responsibility
Leadership Social Responsibility (4)
Learn to innovate in data-driven, tech-focused industries.
Learning Commons
Library
Looking ahead
Macroeconomics
Majors & minors
Management Concentration
Management Consulting
Management Information Systems (MIS) Concentration
Managerial Accounting
Managing Organizational Effectiveness
Managing Organizational Effectiveness (4)
Many students transfer courses which required enough writing to qualify as W courses. A “W” usually means that a course requires either several short papers or a term paper with a required revision. If you think you have transferred a course that should count as a W course, consult your advisor.
Maps & directions
Maps &#038; Directions
Marketing Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Marketing Intelligence
Marketing Management
Marketing Management (4)
Marketing Option and Concentration
Marketing Option and Concentration - School of Business
Marketing option/concentration students must complete the following courses for graduation:
Master Advanced Accounting with a Flexible, Applied Program
Master of Business Administration
Master of Science in Accounting
MATH 112, 124, 125, 126, 134, or 145
MATH 112, or 124, or 125, or 126, or 134, or 145, or
MATH 390, or Q SCI 381, or IND E 315
MATH 390, Q SCI 381, or IND E 315
MATH& 146 or
MATH& 148 or MATH&151
MATH&148 or MATH& 151
MBA Elective Courses
Mentors
Mentorship EDGE
Mentorship EDGE Mentors
Microeconomics
Microeconomics for Business
Microeconomics for Business (4)
Minor in Actuarial Science
Minor in Business Administration
Minor in Economics
Minor in Retail Management
Minors
More Links
MS Accounting Advisory Board
MSA Faculty
MyUW
Negotiations
New Product Marketing
News
Note: schedule subject to change.
Open mobile menu
Operations and Supply Chain Management
Operations and Supply Chain Management (4)
Opportunities
Option and concentration curriculum
Option Course Numbers & Names
Overlap with other requirements
People
PharmD-MBA Program
Policies & Petitions
Postbaccalaureate students are not required to complete the additional writing requirement.
Pre-Fall
Prerequisite Course Requirements
Prerequisite Courses
Prerequisites
Prerequisites - School of Business
Prerequisites for matriculation
Privacy
Professional Coaching
Program Snapshot
Project Management
Promotion and Tenure Guidelines
Provides a general manager&#8217;s perspective on the management of innovation. Focuses on conceptual frameworks and analytical tools for managing innovation throughout the firm. Topics include the nature of innovation, how organizational and technical capabilities affect innovation, product/process development systems, and technology implementation.
Provides an advanced overview of leadership theory and practice and helps students understand and develop their own leadership potential. Relies on a variety of approaches including readings, cases, simulations, guest speakers, activities, discussion, assessments, lectures, and reflection.
Provides an introduction to the models used in the investment and financing decisions of a firm. Topics include: valuation of stocks and bonds; measurement of risk and return; project evaluation and analysis; financial leverage and optimal capital structure, and optimal dividend policy.
Provides an introduction to the strategic role of the human resource function within modern organizations; examines human resource management practices associated with individual and organizational effectiveness, employee satisfaction, and motivation; and develops an understanding of how general managers can apply these concepts in managing people within their organizations.
Provides knowledge and insights to construct, implement, and evaluate digital marketing strategies based on data-driven analysis. Explores topics including search engine optimization, search advertising, display advertising, web analytics, social media marketing, and mobile marketing.
PSYCH 315, 317, or 318
PSYCH 315, or 317, or 318
Q METH 201
Q METH 201, or
Q SCI 291
Questions?
Quick Links
Read, interpret, and analyze company financial reports. Understand the procedural aspects of the preparation of financial statements. Acquire a working knowledge of generally accepted accounting principles and financial reporting standards. Understand the ambiguities that arise in preparing financial statements and the role of good business judgment in resolving these ambiguities.
Ready to design your MBA path?
Reasoning
Register for Classes
Related Links
Request Information
REQUIRED COURSES
Required Marketing Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Requires two of the following courses:
Retail Management Concentration
Reviews descriptive statistics, exploratory data, and probability distributions. Studies the theory and methods of statistical inference, emphasizing those applications most useful in modeling business problems. Topics include sampling theory, estimation, hypothesis testing, linear regression, analysis of variance, and several advanced applications of the general linear model.
Ron Tilden Accounting Scholarship
Rules Docket
Sample Program Schedule
Schedule : Full-time or part-time available, M/W or T/TH evenings and Saturdays (electives)
Scholarships
School of Business
Schools & Academics
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Select Electives
Seminar on Financial Accounting (4 credits)
Seminar on Global Economic Issues
Seminar on Strategic Cost Accounting
Seminar on Strategic Cost Accounting (4 credits)
Signup for Email Updates
Skip To Content
Special Core Courses
Special Electives
Specializations
Spring
Staff
Start : Any quarter (Autumn, Winter, Spring, Summer)
STAT 220, 221 (221 prior to A&#8217;17), 311, or 390
STAT 220, or 221 (221 prior to A’17), or 311, or 390, or
Statistics
Statistics for Business
Statistics for Business (4)
STMATH 113 & 114, 124, 125, or 126, or
STMATH 114, 124, 125, or 126, or
Strategic Management Capstone
Strategic Management Capstone (4)
Student Affairs
Student Engagement &#038; Activities
Students are also required to complete 20 credits of Accounting electives. Electives can be arranged across quarters as desired.
Study abroad tour that cultivates a rich understanding of business theory and a genuine global perspective. Develops an appreciation of national difference in culture and economic, legal, and political systems that affect business strategy, operations, and performance.
Subscribe to Notifications
Summer
Supply Chain Management Option
Sustainability
Synthesizes and extends perspective on global business environment. Demonstrates how choices related to organization and strategy (such as outsourcing and diversification) require an understanding of trade theory and policy, differences in national cultures, and international institutions.
Tacoma Campus
Take the Next Step
Technology / Leadership Electives
Technology & Innovation Management (TIM) Concentration
Technology and Innovation Management
Technology MBA
Terms
The Marketing Option/Concentration prepares students to thrive in customer-centric organizations with a blend of analytical thinking, experiential learning and professional experiences. Identifying, delivering, communicating and sustaining value to the target customer is fundamental to success in a competitive environment. They will learn to develop and implement coordinated marketing programs to successfully manage a company&#8217;s relationship with its target customers in order to meet its strategic goals. Graduates go on to work in brand management, sales, marketing research and consulting, and entrepreneurial ventures.
The UW Bothell School of Business MBA Program blends rigorous academics with real-world experiences, preparing you to lead in any business environment. Learn from award-winning faculty, collaborate with peers, and apply your skills to real local and global challenges.
There are three entry points into the B.S. in Economics major. These include students transferring from another institution, students directly admitted into the major from high school, and UWB pre-majors. Regardless of how you enter the B.S. in Economics major, the requirements are the same. The table below outlines the five prerequisite courses and their most common equivalents.
These five credits will simultaneously satisfy other Area of Inquiry requirements and do not add to the total number of credits you need to graduate.
This course is designed to introduce students to concepts, methods and tools of project management. Students will be exposed to topics such as exploring the processes of selecting and defining the project, planning the project, leading the project team, monitoring and controlling the execution of the project, and closing and evaluating the project.
This requirement is intended to help you develop an understanding of the complexities of living in increasingly diverse and interconnected societies.
Time Schedule
Topics may include cross-cultural communication, historical and current inequities (e.g., race, gender, class, sexuality, ability), and critical thinking about power, inequality, and social change.
Total Credits
Total Credits: 52 (32 core, 20 electives)
Tuition & Financial Aid
Tuition &#038; Fees
Tuition and Financial Aid
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Admissions
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
UW BOTHELL
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UW IN SEATTLE
UW SEATTLE
uwbadvis@uw.edu
uwbbusiness@uw.edu
uwbmba@uw.edu
uwbmsa@uw.edu
Vision, Mission & Values
Visitors
W courses may overlap with any other requirement except the 5-credit English composition course. The courses you use to satisfy the W-course requirement may also count toward your major, a minor, the Areas of Inquiry requirement, and/or the RSN requirement.
Where to find W courses
Why hire a business student?
Why study marketing?
Winter
Workday Login
Year One
Year Two
You must complete at least 5 credits in approved courses that explore the sociocultural, political, and economic diversity of human experience on local to global scales. These courses aim to deepen your understanding of life in diverse, interconnected societies.
Your MBA Journey Starts Here
