Owner: uw-bothell-developmental-and-youth-studies:pathway:m-ed-with-critical-educational-change-and-leadership-cecl-concentration
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/education/undergraduate/developmental-and-youth-studies/degree-requirements
Title: Degree Requirements - School of Educational Studies

[Supplemental official source] Major Concentrations
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
|
10
10 credits – Capstone Sequence
10 credits – Writing Across the Curriculum (W)
100
15 credits – Arts & Humanities (A&H)
15 credits – Natural Sciences (NSc)
15 credits – Social Sciences (SSc)
15 credits from list – Electives
18115 Campus Way NE
2
25 credits – School of Educational Studies Core Courses
3
35 credits – Developmental & Youth Studies Foundation Courses
4
40
425.352.5000
425.352.5411
5
5 credits – Composition (C)
5 credits – Diversity (DIV)
5 credits – Reasoning (RSN)
6
60
8
80
A single agency or organizational setting may be used to complete Applied Experience hours required for multiple courses (including B EDUC 495) that the student is enrolled in during the same academic quarter.
A student may not request compensation from their employer for any hours they spent conducting an applied experience for BEDUC 495.
About
Academic Advising
Accessibility
Admissions
Adolescent development
Advisory Boards
After-school programs (YMCA, Boys & Girls Club)
All students in the Developmental & Youth Studies major enroll in a two-course capstone sequence:
All students in the Educational Studies Major are expected to complete coursework and a field experience that showcases their critical reflection and learning related to the five core themes in the undergraduate degree.
All UW Bothell
Alternative educational settings such as home-school networks, juvenile detention, or social service agencies
Alumni
Analyze contextual factors and impacts on individuals, including family, school, community, and digital, as well as how diverse individuals frame their own identities in these spaces
Analyze human growth and development processes:
Any hours completed prior to the start of the quarter enrolled in Applied Experience do not count toward the total hours needed
Applied Experience Guidelines & Policies
Applied Experience Guidelines and Policies
Applied Experience hours cannot be completed as part of any time spent working in a paid job.
Applied Experience hours completed to earn academic credit for B EDUC 495 cannot be used for applied experience (or service learning) hours for another academic course. Nor can Applied Experience (or service learning) hours completed to earn academic credit for another academic course be used or counted for B EDUC 495 Applied Experience hours
Applied Experience hours need to be completed within the quarter dates of enrollment.
Apply
Apply As Undergraduate
Area of Personal Significance
B EDUC 205 Education & Equity in the United States (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 210 Teaching & Learning in a Multicultural Society (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 220 Education and Society (SSc)
B EDUC 230 Culture Knowledge and Education (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 250 Topics in Education and Popular Culture (A&H)
B EDUC 255 Critical Diversity Studies (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 295 Gathering, Analyzing, and Using Data in Education (DIV, RSN)
B EDUC 300 Research & Educational Knowledge (W)
B EDUC 310 Theories of Learning, Culture & Identity (SSc)
B EDUC 328 Diversity, Leadership, and Engagement (DIV)
B EDUC 391 Special Topics in Education
B EDUC 392 Independent Study (requires faculty supervisor )
B EDUC 402 Human Growth and Learning (SSc)
B EDUC 403 Introduction to Special Education
B EDUC 438 Teaching & Learning Tribal Sovereignty (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 441 Second Language Acquisition, Bilingual Education, and the Structure of English (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 451 Early Childhood Development (SSc)
B EDUC 453 Children in Schools and Society (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 456 Adolescents in Schools and Society (SSc)
B EDUC 458 Emerging Adulthood (SSc)
B EDUC 461 Educational Implications of Gender Inequality (DIV)
B EDUC 470 Disability Culture in Schools and Society (DIV, SSc)
B EDUC 481 Adolescent Development (SSc)
B EDUC 491 Special Topics in Education
B EDUC 495 Applied Experience
B EDUC 495 Applied Experience (5 credits)
B EDUC 495 Applied Experience is designed to:
B EDUC 498 Educational Studies Research
B EDUC 499 Capstone Project
B EDUC 499 Capstone Project (5 credits)
B HLTH 435 Foundations and Principles of Health Education Communication (SSc)
be a hands-on, community-based learning and professional-development experience
Become a Teacher
BIS 219 Politics of Sex Education (SSc)
BIS 222 Introduction to Human Sexuality (DIV, SSc)
BIS 225 Social Psychology (SSc)
BIS 227 Rad Women in the Global South (DIV, SSc)
BIS 235 Critical Media Literacy (SSc)
BIS 365 Institutions and Social Change (SSc)
BIS 366 The Family in US Society (SSc)
BIS 369 Indigenous Psychology & Health (DIV)
BIS 405 Environmental Education (NSc)
BIS 450 Decolonizing Psychology (SSc)
BIS 483 Community Organizing (SSc)
BISPSY 337 Risk & Resilience (SSc)
BISPSY 343 Community Psychology (SSc)
BISPSY 348 Cultural Psychology (SSc)
BISPSY 350 Intergroup Relations (SSc)
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358531
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone Sequence
Career Pathways & Academic Connections
Career Services
Child & Youth Development Minor
Close mobile menu
Community-Engaged Learning & Research
Commuter Services
Consideration of influential theories of learning, from those based in psychology and child development, to those influenced by anthropology and social justice and ways that these learning theories have been applied to teaching or assessment practices and educational policies, both historically and in current educational contexts.
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Credits
Critical reflection and applied learning
Current site
Curriculum, Instruction & Equity
Curriculum, Instruction & Equity Concentration
Degree Completion Requirements
Degree Requirements
Degree Requirements - School of Educational Studies
Develop connections between developmental theories, concepts, and perspectives on developmental processes
Developmental & Youth Studies
Developmental & Youth Studies majors are expected to participate in learning experiences in community-based settings to gain valuable insight into possible roles and career opportunities in education-related fields. To accomplish this, the Developmental & Youth Studies major requires the completion of an applied learning experience, B EDUC 495 Applied Experience.
Developmental & Youth Studies majors build a portfolio which encourages them to reflect on School of Educational Studies Core Themes and make connections between what they have learned in their coursework and accomplished in Applied Experience. Students begin their capstone by applying what they have learned in their coursework in an Applied Experience placement, and complete their portfolio in B EDUC 499.
Developmental & Youth Studies majors must complete all university and major requirements listed below.
Directory
Diversity Studies Minor
Dual Endorsement Options
Early childhood
Earn 180 university credits
Education & Equity
Education & Society Minor
Education Studies: Elementary Education Option
Educational Advocacy & Community Engagement Minor
Educational Leadership, Policy & Social Justice
Educational Leadership, Policy & Social Justice Concentration
Educational research projects
Educational Studies
Educational Studies Core Themes
Educational Studies majors select one of two interdisciplinary concentrations that align with their academic interests and career goals. Both pathways prepare students to work against inequity and enact social change.
Elementary Education Teacher Certification Post-Baccalaureate
Employment Opportunities
encourage self-reflection on the challenges and opportunities of education in diverse settings
Enhancing Capacity for Special Education Leadership (ECSEL)
Examine critical perspectives on theories and concepts of child and adolescent development
Exception: Applied Experience hours may be completed in the same organizational setting where the student is employed, but the student must delineate, in writing:
Expand Navigation
Experimental teaching in STEM or other professional fields
Explore diverse cultural perspectives on human development
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & Staff
Focus on how we “know” what we “know,” the political implications of such knowing, the positionality of who conducts and writes about educational research, and how educational research is used publicly in the political arena.
For students admitted to the UW prior to Autumn 2023 the DIV requirement is 3 credits
Frequently Asked Questions
Funding Resources for Graduate Students
Funding Resources for Post-Baccalaureate Students
Give
Goodlad Institute for Educational Renewal
Graduate
Graduate Policies & Petitions
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Hours Requirement
How applied experience activities and responsibilities are separate for each course
How Applied Experience hours go beyond their duties and responsibilities for their paid job.
How applied experience hours respectively contribute to the student’s learning goals for each course.
How can educators be instructional leaders and change agents who dismantle systems of marginalization and who work toward social change?
How can educators nurture partnerships with families and communities to amplify community voice and advocate for social change?
How do diverse contexts of youth development including family, school, community, and culture, influence how children and youth frame their own identities?
How do educators design and employ curriculum and instructional practices to promote equity and social justice?
How their Applied Experience hours are separate from those hours for which the student is paid.
How their applied experience hours at the agency or organization are separately allocated for each course
Human Resources
Identification of area of growth meaningful to the student in their pursuit of life-long learning and/or professional expertise relating to educational studies. This area may be a deepening of knowledge from one of the above four program themes or another area (e.g., in the arts, technology, ethics, philosophy, psychology, sciences).
Identify and describe identity formation
If students are engaged in religiously affiliated services or schools, students need to be contributing to the provision of social services through the institution, rather than participation in religious instruction.
In the final course in the Developmental & Youth Studies major capstone sequence, students build a portfolio that showcases their critical reflection and learning related to School of Educational Studies core themes. Students are encouraged to collect artifacts (previous course papers or projects) relating to these themes and to think and write reflectively on them throughout their course of study.
In this case, the student must delineate, in writing:
In this section
Info Sessions & Events
Information Technology
integrate the knowledge and skills students have cultivated in Developmental & Youth Studies courses and apply elements of the School of Educational Studies Major core themes
Internships
Internships are formal, organized programs used to provide a professionally-oriented learning experiences in an organization or occupation; and may be paid or unpaid. Internships are temporary, have a defined end date, and are not considered employment.
Investigation of historic and contemporary struggles over issues of equity in the United States education system and evaluation of positions of various stakeholders and identification of strategies which have been used to move towards equity in United States education.
Jobs
LEDE PEAB
Library
M.Ed. with Critical Educational Change and Leadership (CECL) Concentration
M.Ed. with Educating for Critical Race Theory (E-CRiT) Concentration
M.Ed. with English to Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) Concentration
M.Ed. with Leadership Development for Educators (LEDE) Concentration
Major Concentrations
Major Concentrations - School of Educational Studies
Major Learning Objectives
Major Requirements
Maps & directions
Meet our LEDE Faculty
Meet our M.Ed. Students
More Links
Museums
MyUW
Neighborhood community centers
Nonprofit organization with a teaching/learning/professional development component
On this page
Open mobile menu
Optional Dual Endorsement
Overview
Placement Selection Process
Placement Sites
Placements must allow students to examine School of Educational Studies core themes
Placements must comply with all policies outlined below.
Policies
Possible placements include:
Privacy
Professional Development
Program Requirements
Public school programs
Quarter Total
Quick Links
Read about the applied experience requirements, guidelines, and policies .
Register for B EDUC 495 according to the academic plan developed with academic advisor
Religious content may not be delivered or taught as part of Applied Experience.
Research & Educational Knowledge
Resources for choosing an Applied Experience placement
Rules Docket
School of Educational Studies
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Skip To Content
Some academic requirements related to BEDUC 495 must be completed for each quarter enrolled–see the BEDUC 495 Applied Experience syllabus for details.
Student Clubs & Organizations
Students are held to the Student Conduct Code for the University of Washington .
Students pursuing the Curriculum, Instruction & Equity concentration can gain a foundation in child and youth development and explore approaches to learning and instruction inside and outside K12 settings.
Students pursuing the Educational Leadership, Policy & Social Justice concentration focus on critical perspectives on education history and policy and explore the tensions between education and social justice. Students examine how systems of marginalization that impact communities contribute to and influence educational policy and impact social justice.
Students seeking academic advising can schedule an appointment through our Academic Advising page. To learn more about Developmental & Youth Studies’ policies and petitions, please visit our Undergraduate Policies & Petitions page.
Students should meet with their academic advisor at least one quarter before beginning Applied Experience to discuss which Community-Engaged Learning & Research (CELR) placement option, or self-placement, best meets their academic and career interests. Students can use the EXPO database to explore available CBLR opportunities.
Tacoma Campus
TCert PEAB
Teaching & Learning in a Multicultural Society
Teaching & Learning Minor
Terms
The content of this major spans early childhood into adolescence and emerging adulthood in a range of social contexts including family, peer, school, and community, with a focus on diversity and equity. In the Developmental and Youth Studies degree, students will:
The course may be taken for 2-5 credits each quarter until the number of required hours is fulfilled (see table below).
The total number of hours required for 5 credits of BEDUC 495 Applied Experience is 100. *See COVID-19 announcement below*
Theories of Learning, Culture, & Identity
This written statement must be submitted prior to beginning any applied experience hours and must be approved by the BEDUC 495 course instructor.
This written statement must be submitted prior to beginning any Applied Experience hours and must be approved by the BEDUC 495 course instructor.
Throughout their coursework, students will engage with Educational Studies core themes and consider questions such as:
Time Schedule
Time spent completing Applied Experience hours is counted towards earning academic course credit for BEDUC 495, and, to avoid any potential conflict of interest regarding time and activities spent working as an employee versus time and activities spent learning as a student.
Time spent in a time-limited internship, paid or unpaid, may be counted toward the completion of B EDUC 495 Applied Experience.
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Policies & Petitions
Understanding of how critical elements in our multicultural society contribute to students’ school experiences. Exploration of ways in which race and ethnicity intersect with other factors including class, gender, sexual orientation, language, disability, and citizenship to influence students’ school experiences and provide important insights for culturally relevant teaching. Also, examination of complex social, cultural, political and economic issues that impact the communities where students live and consider the ways in which those factors are implicated in systems of power and privilege that influence students’ educational opportunities.
Union or advocacy organization
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Requirements
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
uwbses@uw.edu
Visitors
Volunteer work must address a recognized need beyond congregation membership towards the greater community.
Weekly Hours
What are the historical and contemporary contexts for (in)equity in education and society more broadly?
What are the historical and contemporary contexts for (in)equity in education, and how does knowledge of the history of learning and instruction impact current educational practices?
What are the ways education has been used to perpetuate and/or dismantle systems of inequity?
Work with CBLR staff to secure placement or request approval from B EDUC 495 instructor for self-placement.
Workday Login
