Owner: uw-bothell-business-administration-accounting:pathway:mis-concentration
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/business/undergraduate/bachelor-of-business-administration/accounting
Title: Accounting Option - School of Business

(330; CSS 173 or CSS 143 and corequisite CSSSKL 143; CSS 360)
(CSS 133; CSS 143 and corequisite CSSSKL 143; CSE 143; CSS 162; or CSS 173)
(CSS 142 and corequisite CSSSKL 142; CSE 122; or CSE 142)
(CSS 142* and corequisite CSSSKL 142; or CSE 142*; or a minimum score of 4 on the AP Computer Science A exam)
[Supplemental official source] Entrepreneurship Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Finance Option and Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Management Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Management Information Systems (MIS) Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Marketing Option and Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Retail Management Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
* A minimum grade of 2.7 in either course is required.
**Accounting Option students who add a Finance Concentration cannot count the following courses as Accounting Option electives:
*Accounting Option students who add a Finance Concentration cannot use the following courses as part of their Finance Concentration (i.e., no double-counting of courses):
|
10 credits – Complete 2 courses from this list:
10 credits – Complete two courses from this list:
15 credits – Complete 3 courses from this list:
30 Credits
60 Credits
90 Credits
A lower-division college programming course or equivalent is a prerequisite for CSS 173 or CSS 143 and CSS 360.
About
Accounting certification preparation
Accounting Option
Admissions
Advisory boards
After completing the two-year Accounting Option, students are eligible to take the Certified Management Accountant (CMA) exam . Students who wish to become a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) , however, should plan on spending three years in the program. To take the CPA exam, a student needs a minimum of 225 quarter hours or five years of college (a master degree is not required).
All Business degree program students start out in the following introductory management course, which is a prerequisite to all other courses in the concentration:
B BUS 361 – Intermediate Accounting I
B BUS 402 Managing Work Teams
B BUS 427 Entrepreneurial Marketing (320)
B BUS 443 Entrepreneurship Seminar
B BUS 444 Product Development Lab
B BUS 456 Entrepreneurial Finance (350)
B BUS 464 New Product Marketing (320)
B BUS 471 Entrepreneurial Management
B BUS 476 New Technology & Future Markets (300, 320, 350)
B BUS 478 Venture Startup, Management & Growth
Bachelor in Business Administration
Bachelor in Economics
Bachelor of Business Administration
BBUS 300 – Organizational Behavior, Ethics and Inclusivity (DIV)
BBUS 300 – Organizational Behavior, Ethics and Inclusivity, Diversity Designated Course
BBUS 307 – Business Writing, Writing Designated Course
BBUS 310 – Managerial Economics (BMATH 144, or STMATH 124, or MATH 112)
BBUS 310 – Managerial Economics (BMATH 144, STMATH 124, or MATH 112)
BBUS 320 – Marketing Management
BBUS 330 – Information Management & Analysis
BBUS 330 – Information Management and Analysis
BBUS 340 – Operations & Project Management
BBUS 350 – Business Finance (310)
BBUS 361 – Intermediate Accounting I
BBUS 373 – Cost Accounting
BBUS 401 – Work Motivation and Performance
BBUS 402 – Managing Work Teams
BBUS 421 – Consumer Marketing (320)
BBUS 423 – Market Intelligence (320)
BBUS 426 – International Marketing (320)
BBUS 427 – Entrepreneurial Marketing (320)
BBUS 429 – Special Topics in Marketing (320)
BBUS 438 – Marketing Management Lab (320, and one of the following: 421, 423, 426, 427, 429, or 431)
BBUS 441 – Business Project Management (BBUS/ELCBUS 340)
BBUS 443 – Entrepreneurship Seminar
BBUS 444 – Product Development Laboratory
BBUS 445 – Merchandise Acquisition (300)
BBUS 446 – Strategic Retail Promotion (300, 320)
BBUS 447 – Retail Operations and Supply Chain Management (300)
BBUS 448 – Retail Technology and Leadership (300, 445, 446, 447)
BBUS 451 – Financial Policy & Planning
BBUS 451 – Financial Policy and Practice (350)
BBUS 452 – Financial Modeling (350)
BBUS 453 – Financial Institutions & Markets
BBUS 453 – Financial Institutions and Markets (350)
BBUS 454 – Investments
BBUS 454 – Investments (350)
BBUS 460 – Sustainable Business
BBUS 461 – Business, Government, & Society (300, 310)
BBUS 470 – Business Policy & Strategic Management
BBUS 473 – Leadership & Decision Making (300)
BBUS 480 – Global Environment of Business
BBUS 489 – Digital Business Lab
Before you can register for the capstone courses, you must complete all core courses and meet with your advisor to file a graduation application .
Business Consulting Course
Capstone Courses
Choose two courses (10 credits) from the following:
Concentration Course Numbers & Names
Concentration Courses
Core Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Course Numbers & Names
Course Type
CSS 143 – Computer Programming II and corequisite CSSSKL 143 – Computer Programming Skills II
CSS 173 – Fundamentals of Programming Theory and Applications
CSS 360 – Software Engineering
Curriculum
Dean’s Advisory Board
Direct First-Year Admit (DFA)
Don Whitney Scholarship for Graduate Students
Donor Excellence Scholarship
Entrepreneurship Concentration
Entrepreneurship curriculum
Events
Expand Navigation
Faculty
Finance Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Finance Option and Concentration
General Electives (any 300/400 level UW courses)
Give
Graduate
How to apply
In addition to public accounting, the Accounting Option will thoroughly prepare students for careers in private, government and non-profit accounting. The curriculum is designed to enable graduates to fill a number of corporate positions such as internal auditor, managerial accountant and tax accountant. Graduates will also be prepared to serve in government positions such as tax examiner, budget analyst and government auditor. You can get more information from the Washington Society of Certified Public Accountants .
In this section
Independent Study Projects
Internships
Leadership & Strategic Innovation Option
Leadership History
Management Concentration
Management curriculum
Management Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Management Information Systems (MIS) Concentration
Marketing Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Marketing Option and Concentration
Marketing option/concentration students must complete the following courses for graduation:
Master of Business Administration
Mentorship EDGE Mentors
Minor in Actuarial Science
Minor in Business Administration
Minor in Economics
Minor in Retail Management
MIS curriculum
MIS students must complete the following courses for graduation:
News
Option and concentration curriculum
Option Course Numbers & Names
Option Courses
or
People
Policies & Petitions
Prerequisite Courses
Prerequisites
Professional Coaching
Promotion and Tenure Guidelines
Required Capstone Courses
Required Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Required Electives
Required Entrepreneurship Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Required Management Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Required Marketing Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Required MIS Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Required Retail Management Courses (prerequisites in parentheses)
Requirements to declare the concentration
Requirements to declare the Option or the Concentration
Retail Management Concentration
Retail Management curriculum
Ron Tilden Accounting Scholarship
School of Business
Staff
Students in the Entrepreneurship concentration must complete the following courses for graduation.
Students in the Finance Option or Concentration must complete the courses below to be eligible for graduation.
Students in the Retail Management concentration must complete the following courses for graduation:
Students must have completed BBUS 300 – Organizational Behavior, Ethics and Inclusivity (DIV), and BBUS 320 – Marketing Management to declare the Retail Management concentration.
Students wanting to declare the Finance Option are required to have taken B BUS 350 with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Students may apply for a waiver of this minimum GPA requirement if they earn a minimum GPA of 3.0 across all other Finance Option required courses. Students must have completed BBUS 350 – Business Finance, to declare the Finance concentration.
Supply Chain Management Option
Technology & Innovation Management (TIM) Concentration
The Entrepreneurship Concentration prepares students to start their own companies, whether they be tech startups, local shops, or professional services. Students learn by developing actual startup ideas on real startup teams. They spot new business opportunities and create value propositions, which align products or services with customer needs. And they develop strategies and business models for their startups. The concentration prepares students (if interested) to compete in UW’s Dempsey Startup Competition or to apply to the Buerk Accelerator Program .
The Finance Option allows students acquire knowledge about how firms make financial decisions and how these decisions affect individual organizations and society as a whole. Students also learn how firms acquire and allocate funds; how financial markets operate and the role these markets play in economic welfare. The study of finance includes the use of models to develop analytical approaches to problems. Students are trained to take positions in financial institutions such as commercial and investment banks, in finance departments of major corporations or with consulting firms.
The Management Concentration offers a wide variety of courses that examine the many challenges facing modern business organizations and provide the tools to meet those challenges. Specific areas of study include entrepreneurship, leadership and decision-making, conflict resolution, human resources and managing employees. Students who graduate with a concentration in management often pursue careers in consulting or as leaders in the private or public sector.
The Management Information Systems (MIS) Concentration provides students with technical and business skills to solve business problems in technology-based environments. Students learn to analyze and design effective information systems, successfully manage software projects and maximize online customer experiences. The concentration was developed in collaboration with Computing and Software Systems faculty and included suggestions by an industry advisory board. Students in the MIS Concentration take courses in both the Business degree program and the CSS program.
The Marketing Option/Concentration prepares students to thrive in customer-centric organizations with a blend of analytical thinking, experiential learning and professional experiences. Identifying, delivering, communicating and sustaining value to the target customer is fundamental to success in a competitive environment. They will learn to develop and implement coordinated marketing programs to successfully manage a company’s relationship with its target customers in order to meet its strategic goals. Graduates go on to work in brand management, sales, marketing research and consulting, and entrepreneurial ventures.
The Retail Management Concentration provides a solid foundation of theory important to the retail management discipline. Specifically, students will acquire an interdisciplinary knowledge of merchandise acquisition, strategic retail promotion, retail operations and supply chain management. They will also gain an understanding of cutting edge uses of technology in retail management and gain the mindset necessary to find and apply new applications for technologies in the retail context as these new technologies emerge.
Total Credits
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
Vision, Mission & Values
Why hire a business student?
Why study Entrepreneurship?
Why study finance?
Why Study Management Information Systems?
Why study Management?
Why study marketing?
Why study Retailing?
