Owner: uw-bothell-economics:pathway:tim-concentration
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/business/undergraduate/bachelor-of-economics
Title: Bachelor of Economics - School of Business

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
[Supplemental official source] Prerequisites
**AP Statistics score not accepted
*AP Calculus score of 3, 4, or 5 accepted
*Higher level business statistics accepted
*Note: The DIV credits can overlap with General Education requirements above.
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
|
● Additional Writing (W) – 10 credits
● Arts and Humanities (A&H) – 15 credits
● Diversity (DIV) – 5 credits (3 credits for students admitted to UWB prior to Fall 2023)
● English Composition (C) – 5 credits (A grade of 2.0 is required)
● Natural Sciences (NSc) – 15 credits
● Reasoning (RSN) – 5 credits
● Social Sciences (SSc) – 15 credits
20 Credits from the following list:
30 credits:
425.352.5000
5 credits
55 Credits
About
Accessibility
Accounting Option
Admissions
Advisory boards
All UW Bothell
Alumni
An economics degree is a versatile credential that opens doors across diverse industries. It equips students with in-demand, transferable analytical and problem-solving skills, essential for interpreting data, evaluating policies, and guiding market-based decisions.
Apply As Undergraduate
Awards
B BECN 300: Quantitative Methods in Economics (STMATH 114, or 124, or 125, or 126, or B MATH 144)
B BECN 302: Intermediate Microeconomics (BBUS 220, or BIS 200 and STMATH 114, or 124, or 125, or 126, or B MATH 144 )
B BECN 303: Intermediate Macroeconomics (B BECN 302)
B BECN 382: Introduction to Econometrics (B BECN 302)
B BECN 460: Financial Economics ( BECN 302 and either B BECN 458, or STMATH 330 and STMATH 392)
B BECN 469: Game Theory (BBUS 310 or STMATH 114, or 124, or 125, or 126, or B MATH 144)
B BECN/B BUS 458: Risk Modeling (B BECN 302)
B BUS 210: Financial Accounting
B BUS 221/BIS 201: Principles of Macroeconomics (BBUS 220, or BIS 200, or B CUSP 200)
B BUS 301: Data Management ( BIS 215, or BBUS 215, or B MATH 215, or STMATH 341)
B BUS220/BIS 200: Principles of Microeconomics
B MATH 144
BA& 240
Bachelor in Business Administration
Bachelor in Economics
Bachelor of Economics
Bachelor of Economics - School of Business
Bachelor of Science in Economics degree
Become a Mentor
BIS 215 (previously BIS 315), or B BUS 215, or BMATH 21, or STMATH 341
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Business Consulting Course
Calculus
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Flexibility: Our Major opens doors to diverse opportunities, whether in the private sector, public policy, or academic and policy research—allowing you to tailor your career path to your interests
Career Opportunities
Certificate in Accounting
Close mobile menu
COMMON TRANSFER COURSE NUMBERING
Commuter Services
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core Courses ( prerequisites in parentheses)
Course Numbers & Names
Course Type
Current site
Curriculum
Dean’s Advisory Board
Degree Requirements
Direct First-Year Admit (DFA)
Directory
Don Whitney Scholarship for Graduate Students
Donor Excellence Scholarship
Economics Electives (prerequisites in parentheses)
Economics provides the knowledge and tools to understand the impact of micro and macro level decisions and government policy across a wide range of domains such as market dynamics, inflation, economic growth, AI job displacement, employment, inequality, poverty, development, health, and pollution, to name a few.
Entrepreneurship Concentration
Ethics Conference
Events
Executive Education
Expand Navigation
Facilities
Faculty
Finance Option and Concentration
General Education Requirements
General Electives (any 300/400 level B BECN or B BUS course)
Get a Mentor
Give
Graduate
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
High Return on Investment: An Economics degree will position you for analytically rigorous roles across sectors that offer strong earning potential.
Highly sought-after transferable skills: Employers value economists for their analytical thinking, quantitative reasoning, and data interpretation abilities.
How to apply
Human Resources
In addition to the B.S. in Economics course requirements, students are required to fulfill the UW Bothell general education requirements.
In this section
Independent Study Projects
Information Technology
International students who engage in post-completion Optional Practical Training (OPT) can seek a 24-month extension of their initial OPT. This extension, known as a STEM OPT Extension , permits international students to prolong their employment with a qualifying employer for a combined total of 36 months of U.S. work experience.
Internships
Jobs
Leadership & Strategic Innovation Option
Leadership History
Library
Management Concentration
Management Information Systems (MIS) Concentration
Maps & directions
Marketing Option and Concentration
Master of Business Administration
Master of Science in Accounting
MATH 112, or 124, or 125, or 126, or 134, or 145, or
MATH 390, or Q SCI 381, or IND E 315
MATH& 146 or
MATH& 148 or MATH&151
Mentors
Mentorship EDGE
Mentorship EDGE Mentors
Microeconomics
Minor in Actuarial Science
Minor in Business Administration
Minor in Economics
Minor in Retail Management
More Links
MS Accounting Advisory Board
MSA Faculty
MyUW
News
Open mobile menu
Opportunities
Our B.S. in Economics is designed and taught by expert faculty. The School of Business provides a student-centric education and mentoring, as well as strong connections to industry. Our campus constitutes a supportive and active community which embraces students from all backgrounds. To sum up, we offer:
Our program prepares you for success across a broad spectrum of careers grounded in quantitative economic research—such as public policy, financial analysis, data science, healthcare, and more. It also lays a strong foundation for graduate and professional studies in economics, public policy, business, law, and related disciplines.
People
PharmD-MBA Program
Policies & Petitions
Prerequisite Course Requirements
Prerequisite Courses
Prerequisites
Privacy
Professional Coaching
Promotion and Tenure Guidelines
PSYCH 315, or 317, or 318
Q METH 201, or
Q SCI 291
Quick Links
REQUIRED COURSES
Retail Management Concentration
Ron Tilden Accounting Scholarship
Rules Docket
Scholarships
School of Business
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Skip To Content
Small class sizes to maximize faculty-student interactions
Staff
STAT 220, or 221 (221 prior to A’17), or 311, or 390, or
Statistics
Stem-designated
STMATH 114, 124, 125, or 126, or
Strong Foundation for Graduate Studies: Whether you consider pursuing an MBA, MPA, JD, or Ph.D., our B.S. in Economics offers a rigorous foundation to support your next professional and academic goals.
Strong industry partnerships connecting classroom learning to real life context.
Students pursuing the B.S. in Economics major must complete the following 55 credits for graduation.
Supply Chain Management Option
Supportive community with student organizations and networking events.
Tacoma Campus
Taught by leading faculty, our Economics major combines conceptual insight with technical skills. Its flexible, interdisciplinary structure encourages students to apply economic thinking across fields that foster innovative, cross-disciplinary learning and problem-solving from diverse perspectives.
Technology & Innovation Management (TIM) Concentration
Terms
The 55-credit, STEM-designated B.S. in Economics at the School of Business prepares students for data-driven economic analysis through strong foundations in economic theory, quantitative analysis, and critical thinking. Core courses build analytical skills, while flexible electives support career-focused specialization.
The B.S. in Economics qualifies as a STEM-designated program categorized under “Econometrics and Quantitative Economics” (CIP Code 45.0603) on the Department of Homeland Security’s roster of STEM-designated degrees .
There are three entry points into the B.S. in Economics major. These include students transferring from another institution, students directly admitted into the major from high school, and UWB pre-majors. Regardless of how you enter the B.S. in Economics major, the requirements are the same. The table below outlines the five prerequisite courses and their most common equivalents.
Throughout the program, you will explore core economic concepts—from the dynamics of markets to the formulation of models that explain financial risk and economic fluctuations. The emphasis on analytical rigor and quantitative methods equips you with the toolkit necessary to interpret data, derive economic insights, and develop well-informed policy or market decisions. Our curriculum combines rigorous training in economic theory with hands-on, data-based learning that goes beyond the classroom. While you build a strong analytical foundation, you will also tackle real-world challenges through applied projects and case studies —ensuring that you graduate ready to make an impact.
Time Schedule
Total Credits
Tuition & Financial Aid
Tuition and Financial Aid
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
UW BOTHELL
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UW SEATTLE
Vision, Mission & Values
Visitors
What an Economics Major offers:
Why Economics at UWB?
Why hire a business student?
Workday Login
