Owner: uw-bothell-csse:pathway:b-s-in-chemistry-biochemistry-option
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/stem/undergraduate/majors/bscsse/curriculum
Title: CSSE Curriculum - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
* CSS 432 Computer Networking
* INFO 314: Computer Networks and Distributed Applications
* T INFO 250 Foundations of Information Networking
10 credits at 300-level or higher in any subject area
300-400 Level Electives (15 credits / usually 3 courses)
Additional courses: As needed to fulfill the University General Education Requirements
After admission into the general CSSE major, you can contact the advising office at cssadv@uw.edu to switch into the IAC option. Please include your name and student ID number.
Analysis & Problem Solving
Any ONE of the following courses to be selected:
Approved Independent Study in Chemistry (B CHEM 498) (1–5 credits, maximum 10)
Approved Undergraduate Research in Chemistry (B CHEM 499) (1–5 credits, maximum 10)
B CHEM 237 Organic Chemistry I (4 credits)
B CHEM 238/241 Organic Chemistry II w/ Lab (4+3 credits)
B CHEM 239/242 Organic Chemistry III w/ Lab (4+3 credits)
B CHEM 294 Chemistry Seminar (1-2 credits)
B CHEM 294 Chemistry Seminar (1–2 credits)
B CHEM 494 Special Topics in Biochemistry (3 credits, maximum 12)
B CHEM 497 Apprenticeship in Chemistry Education (1–3 credits, maximum 6)
B PHYS 114/117 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 115/118 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 116/119 General Physics w/ Lab (4+1 credits)
B PHYS 121 Mechanics (5 credits)
B PHYS 122 Electromagnetism and Oscillatory Motion (5 credits)
B PHYS 123 Waves (5 credits)
B.S. in Chemistry (biochemistry option)
Biology series
Business Case Justification: Justifies project expenditures, equipment and other resources in terms of business costs, benefits and risks.
Choose one of the following three-course series options:
Collaboration & Team Building: Collaborates effectively with others to achieve a common objective, creates an environment that fosters and sustains successful teamwork.
Complete five additional credits of approved 300- or 400-level courses offered by the School of STEM.
Computing-related courses that are not included on the core or elective requirements lists are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you wish to use as an elective, you may submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Computing-related courses that are not listed above or transfer courses are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you want to use as an elective, you can submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Creativity: Challenges existing assumptions, proposes novel alternative ways to framing or solving a problem, pushes the boundaries of knowledge.
CSS 310: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity
CSS 337 Secure Systems
CSS 411 Computer Technology and Public Policy
CSS 415 Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
Declaring the IAC option
Efficiency: Identifies ways to solve problems or complete tasks smoothly and effectively; choose the optimum solution form and set of alternative possibilities.
Foundation Level
General Business, Social & Technical
IAC-option students take the same core courses as those of the general CSSE major, but replace the 25 credits of &#8220;CSS Electives&#8221; with the courses below:
INFO 312: Enterprise Risk Management
INFO 415: Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) is a Computer Science & Software Engineering pathway that covers the creation and management of safe and secure systems. All organizations—large or small, public or private—rely on secure systems for individual and organizational privacy and security. The IAC option prepares students to create, deploy, and manage systems that ensure the security of any organization.
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) option
Information Gathering: Effectively searches out and organizes pertinent information before making decisions or taking actions.
Interpersonal Skills
Leadership: Champions new ideas, persuades and influences, breaks logjams, and promotes momentum toward solving problems.
Learning by Doing: Demonstrates the ability to learn continuously, capitalize on mistakes, exploit new knowledge, increase productivity over time.
Learning goals
Management Skills
Managing Change & Uncertainty: Adapts to changing circumstances, deals positively with uncertainties and contingencies, manages crises effectively.
Mathematical Principles and Techniques: Understands theory and application of numerical, statistical, set theory, and other mathematical techniques in the context of applications and systems programming.
Mathematics
May be additional CSS electives or electives from other subject areas
Minimum 15 credits (3 courses) of elective coursework from the lists below. Only one networking class (CSS 432, INFO 314, or T INFO 250; marked with an asterisk * ) may be taken.
Minimum 2.0 grade for any course applied to the major.
Minimum 2.0 grade is required in each one of the above chemistry courses.
Minimum of 5 additional credits (usually 1 course) of 200-level or higher CSS Elective coursework in any topic.
Option 1
Option 2
Organic Chemistry series
Petition
Petitions
Physics series
Process Reengineering: Performs business requirement analysis, using appropriate tools and methodologies to maximize organizational performance.
Project Administration: Administers and maintains projects, using appropriate monitoring tools and complying with relevant standards and reporting requirements.
Project Management: Plans, monitors, and controls projects; ensures efficient utilization of resources; keeps projects on schedule and within budgeted resource allocation.
Requirements
Risk Management: Foresees and takes action pro-actively in anticipation of future problems and opportunities.
STMATH 207 Introduction to Differential Equations (5 credits)
STMATH 208 Matrix Algebra with Applications (5 credits)
STMATH 224 Multivariable Calculus (5 credits)
STMATH 341 Introduction to Statistical Inference (5 credits)
Students can choose any 300- or 400-level course listed in the School of STEM time schedule as an elective. If the course is from UW Seattle or is outside of a STEM major, students must submit a to the department using the Chemistry Major or Minor Requirement Petition form.
Submit a CSSE major / minor petition
Submit an applied computing petition
Systemic Thinking: Follows a well-ordered and logical approach to analyzing problems, organizing work, and searching for solutions.
T INFO 441 Network Security
T INFO 442 Computer Security
T INFO 443 Digital Forensics
Technical Level
Technology Evaluation and Selection: Evaluates and selects software and hardware appropriate to the application, architecture and resource constraints; maintains awareness and understanding of emerging technology.
The Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (biochemistry option) allows students to pursue a rigorous curriculum focused on the atomic and molecular nature of the world around us. The degree includes the traditional areas of chemistry (organic, inorganic, physical, and analytical), with the additional concentration on Biochemistry. It has a higher amount of core required courses and fewer electives.
The Foundation Level includes very broad competencies that are found in every CSS core course. The Technical Level is a set of broadly important competencies specific to the software engineering and computer science professions, to be developed in every undergraduate CSS education, across the set of required core courses. Competencies specific to the interests and needs of the individual student are achieved in the CSS advanced elective courses.
The learning objectives for the Bachelor of Arts in Applied Computing and the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Software Engineering are described in terms of competencies achieved by students within the CSS programs.
These courses may overlap with your General Education requirements (A&H, SSc, DIV, etc.), above, as long as they are 300-level or higher.
This option also requires a lot of time-consuming lab work , so we recommend working proactively with your academic adviser when planning your academic schedule.
This tri-campus pathway allows students to select from an approved list of courses offered from all three UW campuses: Bothell, Seattle, and Tacoma. The electives at each campus emphasize the strengths found in the programs offered there, and course topics include information assurance policy, secure coding, and networking and systems security.
Thoroughness: Ensures that work is done correctly, completely, on time and to the highest standards.
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 290, 390, or 490 (Special Topics)
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 397 (Internship), 498 (Independent Study), or 499 (Undergraduate Research)
Upper division STEM electives
User Orientation: Gains understanding of users needs by immersing self in users environment; carefully studies user&#8217;s requirements; puts self in users shoes.
UW Bothell IAC electives
UW Seattle IAC electives
UW Tacoma IAC electives
Writing & Speaking: Expresses ideas correctly and convincingly in reports, memos and other forms of written communication
