Owner: uw-bothell-data-visualization-ba
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/data-visualization
Title: Data Visualization - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
A. Core Courses
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional Elective Options
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Apply As Undergraduate
Autumn Quarter
B BUS 301 Data Management (5 credits)
B DATA 200 Introduction to Data Studies (5 credits)
B DATA 232 Introduction to Data Visualization (5 credits)
B DATA 411 Network Analysis & Visualization (5 credits)
B DATA 412 Advanced Data Visualization (5 credits)
B DATA 497 Advanced Topics in Data Visualization (5 credits)
B GIS 342 Geographic Information Systems (5 credits) (if not taken as core)
B GIS 343 Geovisualization (5 credits)
B GIS 344 Intermediate Geographic Information Systems (5 credits)
B GIS 442 Advanced Geographic Information Systems (5 credits)
B. Advanced Data Visualization and Analysis Methods Courses (15 credits)
Bachelor of Science Elective Courses
Bachelor of Science- 90 credits total
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
BEARTH 201 Mapping the Earth System (5 credits)
BEARTH 202 Modeling Global Systems (5 credits)
BES 303 Environmental Monitoring Practicum (5 credits)
BES 440 Remote Sensing of the Environment (5 credits)
BIS 111/CSS 101 Digital Thinking (5 credits)
BIS 115 Digital Cultures (5 credits)
BIS 140 Numbers in News Media (5 credits)
BIS 180 Human Geography (5 credits)
BIS 218 Power of Maps (5 credits) (if not taken as core)
BIS 235 Critical Media Literacy (5 credits)
BIS 236 Introduction to Interactive Media (5 credits)
BIS 242 Environmental Geography (5 credits)
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research Methods (5 credits)
BIS 332 Digital Global Industries (5 credits)
BIS 340 Approaches to Cultural Research Methods (5 credits)
BIS 342 Geographic Information Systems (5 credits)
BIS 352 Mapping Communities (5 credits)
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World (5 credits)
BIS 380 Bioethics (5 credits)
BIS 406 Urban Planning and Geography (5 credits)
BIS 410 Topics in Qualitative Inquiry (5 credits)
BIS 421 Technology Policy (5 credits)
BIS 447 Topics in Quantitative Inquiry (5 credits)
BIS 490 Advanced Seminar: Smart City Seattle topic (5 credits)
BISIA 244 Time-Based Media Art (5 credits)
BISIA 250 Photography as Art (5 credits)
BISIA 344 Video Art (5 credits)
BISIA 350 Photography and Digital Art (5 credits)
BISMCS 473 Visual Communication (5 credits)
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
C. Spatial Data Analysis Courses (15 credits)
Campus Safety
Canvas
Career Planning
Careers
Close mobile menu
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Courses
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D. Data Visualization Elective Courses (25 credits)
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Data Visualization Electives (25 credits)
Degree Completion
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Either BES 301 Science Methods and Practice OR BST 301 Scientific Writing (5 credits)
Either BIS 218 Power of Maps OR B GIS 342 Geographic Information Systems (5 credits)
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Fall Convergence
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Full-time/Part-time
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
Human Resources
iasgrad@uw.edu
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with credits earned in major coursework, or it can be completed through elective course credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learning Objectives
Library
Majors
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
MyUW
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: See all IAS polices and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
Open mobile menu
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Studies (MA)
Privacy
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
Quick Links
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spatial Data Analysis (15 credits)
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Study Abroad
Tacoma Campus
Terms
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
Time Schedule
Topics may vary; not offered regularly
Undergraduate
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and/or 200-level courses may apply toward the Bachelor of Arts degree. A maximum of 45 credits earned in 100- and/or 200-level courses may apply toward the Bachelor of Science degree. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Winter Quarter
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
