Owner: uw-bothell-csse
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/stem/undergraduate/majors/bscsse/curriculum
Title: CSSE Curriculum - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics

[Supplemental official source] Culminating Experience
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
* CSS 432 Computer Networking
* INFO 314: Computer Networks and Distributed Applications
* T INFO 250 Foundations of Information Networking
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
300-400 Level Electives (15 credits / usually 3 courses)
425.352.5000
About
Accessibility
Actuarial Science
Additional Writing (W) &#8211; 5 credits
Admissions
Advising
After admission into the general CSSE major, you can contact the advising office at cssadv@uw.edu to switch into the IAC option. Please include your name and student ID number.
All prerequisite courses and major requirements require a minimum grade of 2.0 or higher .
All UW Bothell
All UW students must complete a common set of general education requirements . As a Computer Engineering major, you will be on track for completing the English Composition (C), some Additional Writing (W), Natural Science (NSc) , and Reasoning (R) , but make sure to plan for completion of the following:
Almost always also fulfills A&H or SSc
Alumni
Analysis & Problem Solving
Applied Computing
Apply As Undergraduate
Arts & Humanities (A&H) &#8211; 15 credits
Associate Professor with Tenure
At least 5 elective credits must be 400-level
Awards & Endowments
BCHEM 143+144: General Chemistry I + Lab (6 credits)
BEE 215: Fundamentals of EE (5 credits)
BEE 233: Circuit Theory (5 credits)
BEE 235: Continuous Time Linear Systems (5 credits)
BEE 271: Digital Circuits & Systems (5 credits)
BEE 331: Devices & Circuits I (5 credits)
BENGR 494 (3 credits)
BENGR 495 (3 credits)
BENGR 496 (3 credits)
Biological Sciences
Biology
Biomedical
Biomedical Systems and Devices
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Business Case Justification: Justifies project expenditures, equipment and other resources in terms of business costs, benefits and risks.
BWRIT 135 (Research Writing) or similar recommended
Campus Safety
Cannot overlap with A&H
Cannot overlap with SSc
Canvas
Capstone
Capstones
Career Resources
Careers
Center for Biotechnology Innovation & Training
Chemistry
Chemistry (BCHEM)
Close mobile menu
Collaboration & Team Building: Collaborates effectively with others to achieve a common objective, creates an environment that fosters and sustains successful teamwork.
Commuter Services
Computer Engineering
Computer Engineering Capstone (10 credits)
Computer Engineering Capstone (BCE)
Computer Engineering Curriculum
Computer Engineering Curriculum - School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
Computer Engineering-related courses that are not included on the core or elective requirements lists are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you wish to use as an elective, you may submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Computer Science (30 credits)
Computer Science & Software Engineering
Computer Science &#038; Software Engineering (CSSE)
Computing &#038; Software Systems
Computing and Software Systems (CSS)
Computing-related courses that are not included on the core or elective requirements lists are considered on a case-by-case basis. If you have a syllabus, letter from the instructor, or other detailed description for the class you wish to use as an elective, you may submit a petition to request for the course to count.
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Core Courses
Core requirements
Course descriptions
Creativity: Challenges existing assumptions, proposes novel alternative ways to framing or solving a problem, pushes the boundaries of knowledge.
CSS 301: Technical Writing (5 credits)
CSS 310: Information Assurance and Cybersecurity
CSS 337 Secure Systems
CSS 342: Advanced Data Structures, Algorithms, and Discrete Mathematics I (5 credits)
CSS 343: Advanced Data Structures, Algorithms, and Discrete Mathematics II (5 credits)
CSS 360: Software Engineering (5 credits)
CSS 411 Computer Technology and Public Policy
CSS 415 Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
CSS 427: Intro to Embedded Systems (5 credits)
CSS 430: Operating Systems (5 credits)
CSS Labs
CSS Registration
Culminating Experience
Current site
Curriculum
Cybersecurity
Data Science
Declaring the IAC option
Department of Biological Sciences Faculty
Department of Computing & Software Systems Faculty
Department of Engineering & Mathematics Faculty
Department of Physical Sciences Faculty
Department of Physical Sciences Research
Departments
Directory
Diversity (DIV) &#8211; 5 credits
Earth System Science
EE Open lab schedule
Efficiency: Identifies ways to solve problems or complete tasks smoothly and effectively; choose the optimum solution form and set of alternative possibilities.
Elective Courses
Elective courses must have either the CSS or BEE prefix
Elective requirements
Electrical Engineering
Electrical Engineering (30 credits)
Electrical Engineering (BEE)
Engineering &#038; Mathematics
Entry prerequisites
Events
Excellence in Cybersecurity Education
Expand Navigation
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty Research Projects
Follow the links below to read about the content covered in each course:
For a more visual version of the information on this page, download the Computer Engineering degree checklist .
Foundation Level
Frequently Asked Questions
Friday Harbor Laboratories
Full Professor
General Business, Social & Technical
General education requirements
Getting Started with Computer Science
Give
Graduate
Graduate Certificate in Electrical & Computer Engineering Foundations
Graduate Certificate in Software Design & Development
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Heritage University REU
How to Apply
Human Resources
IAC-option students take the same core courses as those of the general CSSE major, but replace the 25 credits of &#8220;CSS Electives&#8221; with the courses below:
In this section
Industry partners
INFO 312: Enterprise Risk Management
INFO 415: Emerging Topics in Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (topics vary)
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) is a Computer Science & Software Engineering pathway that covers the creation and management of safe and secure systems. All organizations—large or small, public or private—rely on secure systems for individual and organizational privacy and security. The IAC option prepares students to create, deploy, and manage systems that ensure the security of any organization.
Information Assurance and Cybersecurity (IAC) option
Information Gathering: Effectively searches out and organizes pertinent information before making decisions or taking actions.
Information Technology
Information Technology (IT)
Interpersonal Skills
Investigative Biology
Jobs
Laboratories
Leadership: Champions new ideas, persuades and influences, breaks logjams, and promotes momentum toward solving problems.
Learning by Doing: Demonstrates the ability to learn continuously, capitalize on mistakes, exploit new knowledge, increase productivity over time.
Learning goals
Library
Majors
Management Skills
Managing Change & Uncertainty: Adapts to changing circumstances, deals positively with uncertainties and contingencies, manages crises effectively.
Maps & directions
Marine Biology
Master of Science in Computer Science & Software Engineering
Master of Science in Cybersecurity Engineering
Master of Science in Electrical & Computer Engineering
Materials
Math and Chemistry (26 credits)
Mathematics
Maximum of 5 credits combined can be CSS or BEE &#8220;Special Topics&#8221; courses
Maximum of 5 credits combined can be CSS or BEE Independent Study (498) or Undergrad Research (499)
May be additional CSS electives or electives from other subject areas
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanical Engineering Research
Microelectronics and Devices
Minimum 15 credits (3 courses) of elective coursework from the lists below. Only one networking class (CSS 432, INFO 314, or T INFO 250; marked with an asterisk * ) may be taken.
Minimum of 5 additional credits (usually 1 course) of 200-level or higher CSS Elective coursework in any topic.
Minors
More Links
MyUW
National Center of Academic Excellence in Cybersecurity
Neuroscience
News
Note: BCE 495 and BCE 496 no longer offered; BENGR 495 and BENGR 496 will satisfy those requirements.
Ocean Engineering
One of either BEE 425: Microprocessor System Design (5 credits) or CSS 422: Hardware and Computer Organization (5 credits)
Only 3 credits prior if admitted prior to autumn 2023
Open mobile menu
Petition
Petitions
Physical Sciences
Physics
Power &#038; Energy
Prerequisites guide
Previous Quarters
Privacy
Process Reengineering: Performs business requirement analysis, using appropriate tools and methodologies to maximize organizational performance.
Project Administration: Administers and maintains projects, using appropriate monitoring tools and complying with relevant standards and reporting requirements.
Project Management: Plans, monitors, and controls projects; ensures efficient utilization of resources; keeps projects on schedule and within budgeted resource allocation.
Project or Thesis
Promotion & Tenure Guidelines
Promotion and Tenure Public Statement
Quick Links
Requirements
Research
Research &#038; Internships
Research &#038; labs
Research Experiences for Undergraduates
Resources
Risk Management: Foresees and takes action pro-actively in anticipation of future problems and opportunities.
Rules Docket
Safety and Security Studies and Modeling in Fluids
School of Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics
School of STEM Student Success
Science and Technology Mathematics (STMATH)
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Signal Processing
Skip To Content
Social Sciences (SSc) &#8211; 15 credits
Staff
STEM Advisory Board
STEM Symposium Event
stemsuccess@uw.edu
STMATH 207: Introduction to Differential Equations (5 credits)
STMATH 208: Matrix Algebra with Applications (5 credits)
STMATH 224: Multivariable Calculus (5 credits)
STMATH 390: Probability & Statistics in Engineering (5 credits)
Student Forms &#038; Resources
Student Organizations
Submit a computer engineering petition
Submit a CSSE major / minor petition
Systemic Thinking: Follows a well-ordered and logical approach to analyzing problems, organizing work, and searching for solutions.
T INFO 441 Network Security
T INFO 442 Computer Security
T INFO 443 Digital Forensics
Tacoma Campus
Teaching Effectiveness Public Statement
Teaching Track Faculty
Technical Level
Technology Evaluation and Selection: Evaluates and selects software and hardware appropriate to the application, architecture and resource constraints; maintains awareness and understanding of emerging technology.
Terms
The Computer Engineering curriculum is ABET accredited and students need to complete major requirements and meet learning objectives and outcomes .
The Foundation Level includes very broad competencies that are found in every CSS core course. The Technical Level is a set of broadly important competencies specific to the software engineering and computer science professions, to be developed in every undergraduate CSS education, across the set of required core courses. Competencies specific to the interests and needs of the individual student are achieved in the CSS advanced elective courses.
The learning objectives for the Bachelor of Arts in Applied Computing and the Bachelor of Science in Computer Science & Software Engineering are described in terms of competencies achieved by students within the CSS programs.
The remaining 5 elective credits must be 300-level or higher
These courses can be taken before or after entry into the major.
These courses may overlap with your General Education requirements (A&H, SSc, DIV, etc.), above, as long as they are 300-level or higher.
Thesis/Project Final Defense Schedule
This tri-campus pathway allows students to select from an approved list of courses offered from all three UW campuses: Bothell, Seattle, and Tacoma. The electives at each campus emphasize the strengths found in the programs offered there, and course topics include information assurance policy, secure coding, and networking and systems security.
Thoroughness: Ensures that work is done correctly, completely, on time and to the highest standards.
Time Schedule
Tuition
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Policies & Procedures
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 290, 390, or 490 (Special Topics)
Up to 10 credits combined of CSS 397 (Internship), 498 (Independent Study), or 499 (Undergraduate Research)
User Orientation: Gains understanding of users needs by immersing self in users environment; carefully studies user&#8217;s requirements; puts self in users shoes.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell IAC electives
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
UW Seattle IAC electives
UW Tacoma IAC electives
Visit our Admissions page for information on prerequisite coursework.
Visitors
Wireless, RF/Microwave, and Telecommunications
Workday Login
Writing & Speaking: Expresses ideas correctly and convincingly in reports, memos and other forms of written communication
You must complete ten (10) credits (usually two courses) of &#8220;CSS&#8221; or &#8220;BEE&#8221; elective coursework. Of these 10 credits:
