Owner: uw-bothell-media-and-communications-studies
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/media-communication
Title: Media & Communication Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

(1-2 credits x 4 quarters)
(5 credits, Autumn)
(5 credits, Early Fall)
(5 credits, Spring)
(5 credits, Winter)
(8 credits, Summer)
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
**Dates and deadlines are subject to change. Please check for updates at the beginning of each quarter.**
*Recommended to take prior to MCS Core Course
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-2 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
1 elective course = 5 credits
1 research methods course requirement = 5 credits
10 (Full time)
10 credits of Composition Coursework
11 CR (Full time)
12-month program/4 quarter
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
5 (Part time)
6 (Part time)
6 core courses (5 at 5 credits; 1 at 1-2 credit x 4 quarters) = 30 credits
A. MCS Core Course (MCS:CORE)
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional Elective Options
Additional MCS Major Coursework (MCS) (25 credits)
Additional School of IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All MCS Faculty
All UW Bothell
Alternative (Part-time) Pathway
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Amoshaun Toft
Analyze the role, practices, histories, rules, and regulations of media and communication technologies in contemporary societies
Anida Yoeu Ali
Applied in Autumn
Apply As Undergraduate
Apply media and communication scholarship to the processes of producing ethical media and communication content in a variety of contexts and for a range of purposes
Autumn
Autumn Quarter
B WRIT 133 or B WRIT 134 or ENGL 131 or equivalent (5 credits)
B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141 or equivalent (5 credits)
B. Communication Practice and Media Production Courses (MCS:P&P)
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
BIS 115 Digital Cultures
BIS 161 Introduction to Film Narrative
BIS 162 Race, Gender, and Sexuality through Film & TV
BIS 176 Introduction to Analyzing Media
BIS 177 Introduction to Making Media
BIS 178 Introduction to Media & Communication
BIS 179 Introduction to Journalism
BIS 205 Technologies of Expression
BIS 207 Shakespeare and Film
BIS 216 Introduction to Cultural Studies
BIS 217 Introduction to Debate
BIS 223 Introduction to Feminist Film Studies
BIS 233 Social Media in Context
BIS 234 Media, Culture, and Capitalism
BIS 235 Critical Media Literacy
BIS 236 Introduction to Interactive Media
BIS 237 Public Speaking and Communication
BIS 238 Language, Identity, Culture and Power
BIS 261 Introduction to Film Studies
BIS 293 Introduction to Writing Studies
BIS 313 Issues in Media Studies
BIS 317 Language, Society and Cultural Knowledge
BIS 322 Theorizing Black Performance BIS 339 Global Media and Social Justice
BIS 324 Gender, Human Rights and Global Cinema
BIS 325 Japanese Popular Culture in History
BIS 331 Journalism and Media History
BIS 332 Global Digital Industries
BIS 333 Life Online: Interpreting the Internet
BIS 339 Politics of Bollywood Cinema
BIS 341 Caribbean Popular Culture
BIS 341 Gender in Film
BIS 341 Girls on Film
BIS 341 Japanese and US Popular Culture
BIS 341 Japanese Cinema, Theatre, Novel and Manga
BIS 347 History of American Documentary Films
BIS 363 Politics and Popular Music
BIS 373 Caribbean Film and Popular Culture
BIS 375 Contemporary &#8220;Muslim&#8221; Artists
BIS 464 Topics in Advanced Cinema Studies
BISAES 369 American Culture and Mass Media
BISIA 244 Time-Based Media Art
BISIA 340 Art of the Remix
BISIA 344 Video Art
BISIA 350 Photography and Digital Art
BISIA 399 Art and Design Digital Portfolio
BISIA 401 Literary & Arts Journal
BISIA 444 Video Installation Art
BISIA 450 Image and Imagination
BISIA 483 Experimental Writing
BISIA 483 Internet Poetry, GIFs, and Memes
BISMCS 234 Media and Communication Techniques
BISMCS 240 Working with Video
BISMCS 260 Working with Audio
BISMCS 279 Journalism Writing
BISMCS 333 Media and Communication Studies
BISMCS 343 Media Production Workshop
BISMCS 402 Community Media Practice
BISMCS 471 Advanced Topics in Media and Communication
BISMCS 472 Advanced Media Production Workshop
BISMCS 473 Visual Communication
BISMCS 475 Global Media Lab
BISSTS 307 Science, Technology and Society
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1) suggested
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (2)
BPOLST 509 Proseminar (1)
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis (5)
BPOLST 513 Practicum
BPOLST 513 Practicum (5)
BPOLST 514 Management & Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project (8)
BPOLST 594 Research Design (5)
BPOLST 594 Research Design is the default means of satisfying the Research Methods requirement. (You may petition for other options, including BPOLST 520 Internship, or BPOLST 598 Directed Research in Advanced Quantitative Methods). The course’s goal is to develop students’ own research questions and explore appropriate research methods for addressing these questions. Readings and discussion provide grounding in research designs, including experimental, longitudinal, cross-sectional, case-study, and participatory action research. Special attention will be devoted to planning and developing student capstone projects.
C. Additional MCS Courses (MCS)
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone requirements = 8 credits
Career Planning
Careers
Carrie Bodle
Click on the link for the form you wish to access
Close mobile menu
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Copy the URL for this page into the incognito window
Core Course: BISMCS 333 (5 credits) (Prerequisite of BIS 176, BIS 177, BIS 178, BIS 179, or COM 200)
Core Courses
Course/Requirement
Courses
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Credits per Quarter
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Current UW Bothell students in good academic standing (2.0 cumulative GPA or above) can declare this major anytime using the online Major Declaration Form .
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D. Topics (MCS)
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Degree Completion
Degree requirements
Develop communication literacies across different genres, mediums, and social contexts
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Interactive Media and Politics & Popular Music sound exciting to you?
Do you want to explore a career in Public Relations, Media Production, or Journalism?
Early Fall
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Elective Credits
Engage with media and communication scholarship in order to research and analyze diverse communication processes
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Faculty Coordinator
Faculty Director
Fall Convergence
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For security reasons, the submission forms linked in the document require you to log in with a UW NetID. If you receive an error message, or are unable to access the form, please try the following:
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Full-time/Part-time
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Georgia Roberts
Give
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Housing
How to apply
Howard Hsu
href="https://uwb.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_3HLf75h3pOTIgGG"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
Human Resources
IAS students may submit an online Major Petition form to request that alternate coursework satisfy a School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences (IAS) major requirement. Students must be admitted or declared in an IAS major in order for the online petition to be reviewed.
iasgrad@uw.edu
iasinfo@uw.edu
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Incoming students can apply for this major when applying for admission to UW Bothell.
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 75 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interdisciplinary Writing Seminar: BIS 290 (5 credits) (Prerequisite of B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141)*
Interested in exploring this major but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
It is founded on the belief that students attain their highest levels of understanding and proficiency when combining practice with theory and connecting classroom and real life environments. Through class seminars, small group collaboration, field research, a practicum, and a capstone project, students acquire the depth of knowledge, practical experiences, and professional skills that position them for success in the world of policy.
Jill Friedberg
Jobs
Joe Milutis
Kari Lerum
Kristin Gustafson
Lauren Berliner
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn more about how to apply
Learn more about how to conduct an Internship
Learn more about how to enroll in Directed Research
Learn more about how to participate in Study Abroad program
Learn more about the capstone research process
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
List of MCS Faculty and Staff
Louise Spiegler
Major Requirements
Majors
Maps & directions
Masahiro Sugano
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
MCS Communication Practice & Media Production (MCS:P&P) Courses (10 credits)
MCS Research Librarian
Media & Communication Studies
Media & Communication Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
MFA Publications
Min Tang
Minda Martin
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
Most students opt to complete the program in 12 months. But for those whose other responsibilities do not allow for full-time enrollment, there is an alternative, part-time pathway, as follows:
MyUW
N/A
News
Nia Lam
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: See all IAS policies and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
On this page: Overview | Curriculum | Dates & Deadlines | Core Courses | Elective Credits | Other Options
On this page: Requirements | Learning Objectives | Faculty & Staff | Courses
Open an incognito window ( What is incognito mode or private browsing, and how to do it)
Open mobile menu
Other options
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
People
Peter Brooks
Petitions
Petitions and Forms
Plan your degree
Please contact the Faculty Coordinator if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about the Media & Communication Studies major.
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership etc.
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership, etc.
Policy Studies (MA)
Policy Studies streamlined its curriculum to offer an accelerated pathway, enabling students to obtain their master’s degree in just 12 months.
Policy Studies students enter the program as a cohort in autumn of each year. Core courses are offered as seminars that meet once a week. These seminars are combined with on-line and/or individual and small group discussions, workshops, case studies and analytical projects as well as field experiences, service learning and applied research opportunities. The course of study culminates with a Capstone Project.
PRACTICE
Practicum courses provide students with the opportunity to explore particular social and policy issues by connecting with community stakeholders that influence and are affected by those issues. The goal is to build relationships with communities with whom students are interested in working and/or conducting research. This course will advance around the three themes of exploration, connection, and relationship building. Students explore their community and political settings by conducting informal research into these contexts. Students will connect with community stakeholders through direct service, informational interviews, events, and/or other means. Currently in development and review for 2017-2018.
Prerequisite of any Introduction MCS course (BIS 176, BIS 177, BIS 178, BIS 179 or COM 200)
Prerequisites
Privacy
PROFESSION
Program Dates & Deadlines
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
PURPOSE
Quarter
Quick Links
Recognize and name how different populations experience power, difference, and injustice in relation to media organizations and representational practices
Recommended preparation
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research Methods Requirement (5): BPOLST 594 Research Design (default): BPOLST 520 Internship or BPOLST 598 Directed Research by petition to capstone advisor
Research Methods Requirement/ BPOLST 594 Research Design
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Ron Krabill
Rules Docket
Samuel Yum
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See a description of current courses being offered.
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Special topics counting as general MCS courses (MCS):
Special topics counting as Practice & Production courses (P&P):
Spring
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
Still having difficulties? Contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000.
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students in the Media & Communication Studies major are skilled communicators who are passionate about understanding how media and popular culture impact our everyday lives. Students with interests that cross a range of disciplines and professional contexts thrive in this major.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Students wishing to receive elective credit for courses taken in other departments (either at UW Bothell or UW Seattle) must fill out a Petition for Outside Coursework and obtain faculty approval.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-300)"
Submit the IAS Major Petition form
Summer
Susan Harewood
Tacoma Campus
Terms
The Capstone is an independent research project intended to be the culmination of the degree program. Building on the networking and research done in the Practicum as well as the planning and design work from the previous quarter, students will work with a faculty advisor to complete and write up their own research. Depending on the nature of the research question and the kind of partners or collaborators students engage, the capstone manuscript may take different formats. In general, capstone manuscripts will include a description of the policy problem, literature review, description of research methods, review of research findings, and conclusions or implications.
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The following degree requirements are required as of Autumn 2024 quarter. Students who entered the Media & Communication Studies (MCS) major prior to Autumn 2024 have different requirements. Please see your Academic Advisor for questions and academic planning.
The MA in Policy Studies Dates & Deadlines are available to students, staff, and faculty by logging in the MAPS Degree Resources Canvas . Signing in with your NetID is required.
The Media & Communication Studies curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives. Students taking courses and/or majoring in Media & Communication Studies:
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The Policy Studies curriculum reflects an innovative, integrated approach to the study of contemporary policy issues in local and global contexts. It prepares students for policy-related analyst and leadership careers in public, private and non-profit organizations.
The primary goal of this class is to help students develop the statistical skills needed to be independent policy researchers. It lays the basic foundation for both academic and practical investigation. This course begins your training by surveying important aspects of the conduct of research into social scientific questions. By the end of the quarter, you will be able to apply appropriate univariate, bivariate, and multivariate statistical techniques to answering research questions; understand the principles and logic behind statistical methods deployed in the course; utilize SPSS to execute a data analysis project and draw statistical inferences; and apply statistical knowledge to understand policy case studies.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
There are many options available to students when it comes to choosing electives. The first place to look is at the BPOLST elective offerings, located for the year on the current courses page. Students can also take graduate level coursework in other degrees, or 400-level classes that are relevant to their field of study. To find other UWB courses, please refer to the UWB Time Schedule . To find courses on the Seattle campus, please refer to the UWS Time Schedule .
There are no formal prerequisites for Media and Communication Studies major.
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
This course focuses on political and institutional aspects of public policy processes. It examines rationales for public policy and the processes in which they are articulated and negotiated; formulation of policies; selection of policy instruments; policy implementation; and policy analysis. The course pays particular attention to methods and approaches commonly used to analyze policy at the formation and implementation stages of policy-making, including cost-benefit analysis, trend analysis, and deliberative approaches.
This course provides an overview of the major literatures in organization theory and management. Assignments focus on developing managerial skills such as: supervising subordinates, building a team, mapping stakeholders, problem-spotting, and evaluating existing programs. Special attention will be devoted to methods and approaches to program evaluation, including logic models, participatory approaches, and rational/quantitative approaches.
This four-course sequence of quarterly one-credit courses develops students’ professional competence in a number of areas essential to the field of policy work. Workshops deepen skills in applied policy ethics, conflict resolution, policy writing and public speaking, and oral presentation of policy information. Students also network with alumni, professionals active in the field, and other faculty in the program in order to structure their MAPS experience and explore policy perspectives from multiple points of view.
This two-week intensive course at the end of September prepares students for BPOLST 502 and more advanced statistics in the future, by providing a survey of college-level mathematical and foundational statistical methods. Topics to be covered include statistical notation, population, sampling distribution and standard normal distributions, graphs and tables, inferential statistics, descriptive statistics and correlations.
Through coursework in the Media & Communication Studies major students develop and hone skills as critical readers and practitioners. Courses integrate theory and practice through media production workshops, classroom seminars, and community-based research projects.
Time Schedule
Topics courses under the below course numbers may apply to the MCS major depending on the subject and title. Please see the Time Schedule notes for additional details about how these courses count toward the major.
TOTAL = 75 Credits
Total required credits= 48
Undergraduate
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
Use your creativity, imagination, and passion for innovation to develop or express meaning across audiences! The Media & Communication Studies (MCS) major at the University of Washington Bothell offers students the opportunity to think critically about access, use, and control of communication and media on the local, national, and global level. The major combines hands-on production with a rich grounding in media and communication theory and history that focuses on power, difference, and injustice. MCS students develop the intellectual capacities and skills needed to use media and communication effectively and ethically.
Useful preparation for this major includes formal and informal training in new media production. Students will need strong skills in critical and creative thinking, communications, and collaboration.
Using their background in Media & Communication Studies, graduates go on to become strategic communicators and media production practitioners. Students in the MCS major pursue careers in the media industries and cultural studies, as well as community organizing and social justice work.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Winter
Winter Quarter
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
You should be prompted to sign into Microsoft. Please use your UW NetID to login
