Owner: uw-bothell-global-studies
Source: https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/majors/global-studies
Title: Global Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences

(1-2 credits x 4 quarters)
(5 credits, Autumn)
(5 credits, Early Fall)
(5 credits, Spring)
(5 credits, Winter)
(8 credits, Summer)
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
**Dates and deadlines are subject to change. Please check for updates at the beginning of each quarter.**
&#124;
&copy; 2026 University of Washington Bothell
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-1 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-2 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<a class="bothell-link-block link-block-3 bothell-link-block--margin-top "
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WDKPCQ"
>
1 elective course = 5 credits
1 research methods course requirement = 5 credits
10 (Full time)
10 credits of Composition Coursework
11 CR (Full time)
12-month program/4 quarter
18115 Campus Way NE
425.352.5000
425.352.5350
5 (Part time)
6 (Part time)
6 core courses (5 at 5 credits; 1 at 1-2 credit x 4 quarters) = 30 credits
A. GST Core Course (GST:CORE)
About IAS
Academic Excellence & Emerging Initiatives Fund
Accessibility
Additional Elective Options
Additional GST Coursework (30 credits)
Additional School of IAS Coursework (20 credits)
Addresses how writers utilize research in their writing and inquires into different kind of research that can be pursued: textual, ethnographic, and performance-based.
Admissions
Admitted Students
All IAS Funds
All UW Bothell
Alternative (Part-time) Pathway
Alumni
American & Ethnic Studies
American Muslim Research Institute Fund
Applied in Autumn
Apply As Undergraduate
Autumn
Autumn Quarter
B DATA 232 Introduction to Data Visualization
B GIS 342 Geographic Information Systems
B WRIT 133 or B WRIT 134 or ENGL 131 or equivalent (5 credits)
B WRIT 135 or ENGL 141 or equivalent (5 credits)
B. GST Methods Courses (GST:METHODS)
BACHELOR OF ARTS
BACK TO TOP
BCWRIT 500 Between Prose and Poetry (5 credits)
BCWRIT 501 Between Fact and Imagination (5 credits)
BCWRIT 502 Processes of Thinking and Memory (5 credits)
BCWRIT 510 Cultural Change and Writing (5 credits)
BCWRIT 511 Writers&#8217; Research (5 credits)
BCWRIT 512 Art, Technology, Practice (5 credits)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (1 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (2 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (3 CR)
BCWRIT 599 Thesis Practicum (6 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Creative Writing Thesis (15 credits total, C/NC)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (5 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (7 CR)
BCWRIT 700 Thesis (8 CR)
BES 301 Science Methods and Practice
BIS 136 Introduction to Art History
BIS 163 The Lives of Objects
BIS 164 Introduction to World Literature
BIS 180 Introduction to Human Geography
BIS 183 Introduction to the Middle East
BIS 185 Art and Climate Change
BIS 203 Economics of Gender
BIS 215 Understanding Statistics or B BUS 215 Business Statistics or B MATH 215 Statistics for Health Sciences
BIS 216 Introduction to Cultural Studies
BIS 218 Power of Maps
BIS 224 Introduction to Feminist Studies
BIS 227 Rad Women in the Global South
BIS 233 Social Media in Context
BIS 234 Media, Culture, and Capitalism
BIS 235 Critical Media Studies
BIS 242 Environmental Geography
BIS 249 Introduction to Labor Studies
BIS 256 Introduction to African American Studies
BIS 257 Introduction to Asian American Studies
BIS 264 Africa on Film
BIS 268 World History to 1500
BIS 269 World History after 1500
BIS 279 Introduction to Law and Society
BIS 282 Introduction to Globalization
BIS 284 International Relations
BIS 304 Introduction to Political Economy and the Environment
BIS 310 Women, Culture and Development
BIS 312 Approaches to Social Research
BIS 317 Language, Society, and Cultural Knowledge
BIS 324 Gender, Human Rights, and Global Cinema
BIS 325 Japanese Popular Culture in History
BIS 332 Global Digital Industries
BIS 339 Issues in Global Cultural Studies
BIS 340 Approaches to Cultural Research
BIS 352 Mapping Communities
BIS 353 Human Rights in Theory and Practice
BIS 363 Politics and Popular Music
BIS 368 Asian American Psychology
BIS 372 Representation, Colonialism, and the Tropical World
BIS 373 Caribbean Film and Popular Culture
BIS 374 Middle East Politics
BIS 375 Contemporary &#8220;Muslim&#8221; Artists
BIS 377 British Literature and the Gothic Novel
BIS 386 Climate Change Adaptation Policy
BIS 388 Literature in Translation
BIS 394 Comparative Economic Development
BIS 403 Washington D.C. Seminar on Human Rights
BIS 414 Topics in Human Rights
BIS 418 Global Scholars: Global Citizenship in Context
BIS 420 Colonizing History in Sub-Saharan Africa
BIS 441 Global Labor Markets
BIS 459 Conservation and Sustainable Development
BIS 466 Human Rights and Resistance
BIS 468 Human Rights and Sustainable Development
BIS 470 Art, Politics, and Social Change
BIS 475 American in Europe (Study Abroad Program)
BIS 480 International Study Abroad (Study Abroad Program)
BIS 490 Advanced Seminar (topics vary, examples below)
BISAES 305 Power, Dissent, and American Culture
BISAES 364 Public Memory and Dissent in American Culture
BISAES 367 Race, Ethnicity, and Immigration
BISGST 303 History and Globalization
BISGST 303 History and Globalization (5 credits)
BISGST 324 International Political Economy
BISGST 397 Topics in Global Studies
BISGST 497 Advanced Topics in Global Studies
BISGWS 302 Histories and Movements of Gender and Sexuality
BISIA/BISMCS 475 Global Media Lab
Bothell, WA 98011-8246
Bothell, Washington View our location on Google maps.
Box 358530
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies
BPOLST 502 Statistics for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1)
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (1) suggested
BPOLST 509 Pro-seminar (2)
BPOLST 509 Proseminar (1)
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies
BPOLST 510 Statistics Fundamentals for Policy Studies (5)
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis
BPOLST 511 Policy Process and Analysis (5)
BPOLST 513 Practicum
BPOLST 513 Practicum (5)
BPOLST 514 Management & Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation
BPOLST 514 Management and Program Evaluation (5)
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project
BPOLST 515 Capstone Project (8)
BPOLST 594 Research Design (5)
BPOLST 594 Research Design is the default means of satisfying the Research Methods requirement. (You may petition for other options, including BPOLST 520 Internship, or BPOLST 598 Directed Research in Advanced Quantitative Methods). The course’s goal is to develop students’ own research questions and explore appropriate research methods for addressing these questions. Readings and discussion provide grounding in research designs, including experimental, longitudinal, cross-sectional, case-study, and participatory action research. Special attention will be devoted to planning and developing student capstone projects.
C. Additional GST Coursework (GST)
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone requirements = 8 credits
Career Planning
Career Resources
Careers
Chelsea Nesvig
Chinese Media & Society
Click on the link for the form you wish to access
Close mobile menu
Coaching appointments are offered in-person or over Zoom.
Collaborate with peers and various community partners in scholarly and creative activities.
Community Engagement
Community Psychology
Commuter Services
Conservation & Restoration Science
Contact
Contact Us
Contact us by phone at:
Contacts
Copy the URL for this page into the incognito window
Core Courses
Course/Requirement
Courses
Courses focus on project-based learning about the political, economic, and cultural forces that shape our regions, nations, and the world. Engagement in research and practice with digital mapping help students demonstrate global interconnectedness and interdependency to the public.
Creative Writing & Poetics (MFA)
Credits per Quarter
Culture, Literature & the Arts
Cumulative GPA Requirement: Major GPA must be at a cumulative of 2.00 or higher.
Current site
Curriculum
Curriculum - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
D.C. Human Rights Seminar
Data Visualization
Death Rituals
Decolonizing Film
Degree Completion
Degree Requirements
Did you know? UW Alumni can access Career Services for three years after graduation (and Veterans have lifetime access)!
Directory
Diversity and Equity
Diversity Plan
Do courses like Human Rights and Resistance or History of Economic Nationalism sound interesting to you?
Do you want to explore a career in Public Policy, Foreign Affairs, or Humanitarianism?
Early Fall
Earth System Science
Educational Access & Opportunity Fund
Elective Credits
Engages the primary processes of thinking and memory as they are affected by diverse writing practices and media applications.
Engages the subject of poetics as writing theory and practice. Focuses on cultural, social, and technological change as these create new challenges and possibilities for creative writing.
Environmental Science
Environmental Studies
Events
Examines the relationships between fact and imagination in fiction, non-fiction, and poetry writing.
Expand Navigation
Experiential & Community Based Learning Fund
Explores relationships among art, technology, and creative practice. Examines connections among diverse art forms, inquiring into their social, philosophical, and aesthetic dimensions.
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & staff
Fall Convergence
Focuses on the cross over between prose and poetry in multiple genres. Considers the prevalence of narrative and alternatives to narrative.
For security reasons, the submission forms linked in the document require you to log in with a UW NetID. If you receive an error message, or are unable to access the form, please try the following:
For the degree, first-year students complete 6 core courses (writing workshops and poetics seminars) for a total of 30 credits. In their second year students complete 15 credits of supervised thesis work and submit an original creative work and poetics statement. Thesis work is supplemented by 6 credits of required thesis practicum, for a total of 51 degree credits.
Full-time/Part-time
Funding
Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Give
Global Justice Activism & NGOs
Global Scholars
Global Scholars Fund
Global Studies
Global Studies - School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Grade Appeal
Graduate Programs
Graduate Studies Excellence Fund
Grievances and Complaints
Hands-on Learning (IPR)
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
History of Economic Nationalism
Housing
How to apply
href="https://www.uwb.edu/career-services/appointments"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/career-planning#interest"
href="https://www.uwb.edu/ias/undergraduate/admissions"
Human Resources
iasgrad@uw.edu
iasinfo@uw.edu
Identify how power structures are produced through local, national and transnational levels and inform individual and collective experiences.
In accordance with UW Graduate School master&#8217;s degree policies, MFA graduate students have six years to complete the degree from the time that they first enroll. This includes any time on-leave as well as actively enrolled.
In advance of their second year, students create an individualized course of study in consultation with their advisors.
In this section
Includes completion of creative thesis in one of the following areas: poetry, fiction, non-fiction, or cross genre as well as a poetics essay or artist’s statement. For details, see Thesis Work .
Inequalities in Medicine, Science, & Technology
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts
Interdisciplinary Practice & Reflection (IPR): The IPR requirement can overlap with the 70 credits of major coursework, or it can be completed through elective credits. Please see the IPR webpage for course options.
Interdisciplinary Social Sciences
Interdisciplinary Studies
Interested in exploring this major but not ready to commit? Consider taking one of the below courses! Any of these selections will help familiarize you with the academic program and prepare you for advanced coursework in the major.
Interested in graduate school?
Internships
Internships. Please consult the internship resources : then complete and submit a learning contract for review and approval by your site supervisor and thesis advisor.
It is founded on the belief that students attain their highest levels of understanding and proficiency when combining practice with theory and connecting classroom and real life environments. Through class seminars, small group collaboration, field research, a practicum, and a capstone project, students acquire the depth of knowledge, practical experiences, and professional skills that position them for success in the world of policy.
Jobs
Law, Economics & Public Policy
Learn creative and critical approaches to pose and address questions about the world, and your place in it.
Learn more about how to apply
Learn more about how to conduct an Internship
Learn more about how to enroll in Directed Research
Learn more about how to participate in Study Abroad program
Learn more about the capstone research process
Learning objectives
Learning Objectives
Library
Link economic, political and cultural processes that unite and/or divide people and places across the globe.
Major Requirements
Majors
Make an appointment for graduate school coaching
Maps & directions
Master of Fine Arts (MFA) Program Fund
Mathematical Thinking & Visualization
Media & Communication Studies
Methods Course (5 credits)
MFA Publications
Minor in Climate Change & Society
Minor in Creative Writing
Minor in Diversity Studies
Minor in Ecological Restoration
Minor in Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies
Minor in Geographic Information Systems
Minor in Human Rights
Minor in Performance
Minor in Policy Studies
Minor in Science, Technology & Society
Minor in Visual & Media Arts
Minors
Mission, Values, and Goals
More Links
Most students opt to complete the program in 12 months. But for those whose other responsibilities do not allow for full-time enrollment, there is an alternative, part-time pathway, as follows:
MyUW
N/A
News
Nony Clark Milmoe Scholarship
Note: See all IAS policies and procedures on the Student Resources webpage .
On this Page: Curriculum Overview | Year One | Year Two | Thesis Work | Elective Option | Degree Completion
On this page: Major Description | Learning Objectives | Degree Planning
On this page: Overview | Curriculum | Dates & Deadlines | Core Courses | Elective Credits | Other Options
Open an incognito window ( What is incognito mode or private browsing, and how to do it)
Open mobile menu
Other options
Overview
Part-time
Peer Facilitation
People
Petitions and Forms
Plan your career
Plan your degree
Please contact the Global Studies Faculty Coordinator if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about the Global Studies major.
Poetics Seminar (5 CR)
Poetics Seminars
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership etc.
Policy Elective (5): Sustainability, Social Policy, Leadership, etc.
Policy Studies (MA)
Policy Studies streamlined its curriculum to offer an accelerated pathway, enabling students to obtain their master’s degree in just 12 months.
Policy Studies students enter the program as a cohort in autumn of each year. Core courses are offered as seminars that meet once a week. These seminars are combined with on-line and/or individual and small group discussions, workshops, case studies and analytical projects as well as field experiences, service learning and applied research opportunities. The course of study culminates with a Capstone Project.
Politics & Economy of College Sports
Power of Feminist Writing
PRACTICE
Practice cultural humility by considering transnational histories and geographies from the lived experiences, creative expressions and intellectual perspectives of marginalized groups.
Practicum courses provide students with the opportunity to explore particular social and policy issues by connecting with community stakeholders that influence and are affected by those issues. The goal is to build relationships with communities with whom students are interested in working and/or conducting research. This course will advance around the three themes of exploration, connection, and relationship building. Students explore their community and political settings by conducting informal research into these contexts. Students will connect with community stakeholders through direct service, informational interviews, events, and/or other means. Currently in development and review for 2017-2018.
Prerequisites
Privacy
PROFESSION
Program Dates & Deadlines
Prospective Students
Provides creative development opportunities and practice in accordance with individualized plans, including but not limited to presenting work-in-progress at salons and readings; submitting work to conferences, residencies, and publications; and interning at arts, education, or media organizations. For details, see Thesis Practicum .
Psychology
PURPOSE
Quarter
Quick Links
Race, Ethnicity, & Politics
Recognize and communicate the historical depth of global inequities, systems of power and legacies of resistance.
Recommended preparation
Request the Master&#8217;s Degree
Research Librarian
Research Methods Requirement (5): BPOLST 594 Research Design (default): BPOLST 520 Internship or BPOLST 598 Directed Research by petition to capstone advisor
Research Methods Requirement/ BPOLST 594 Research Design
Research Opportunities
Residency Requirement: 30 credits must be completed in residency at UW Bothell.
Rules Docket
Sandra Martin Roberts Memorial Scholarship
Scholarship
School of IAS Requirements & Policies
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Science, Technology & Society
Search
Search keywords
Seattle Campus
Second-year students also complete a thesis practicum for a total of 6 credits. The thesis practicum prepares students to present and publish their work, sustain their artistic practice after graduation, and engage as a professional in artistic communities, organizations, and undertakings.
See a description of current courses being offered.
See below for approved list of GST Courses
See below for approved list of Methods Courses
See Registration for instructions and contact the IAS Graduate Office for the appropriate registration codes.
See Registration for instructions.
See Thesis Timeline for thesis filing requirements and deadline
Sex Work, Human Trafficking & Social Justice
Skip To Content
Society, Ethics & Human Behavior
Spring
Spring Festival
Spring Quarter
Staff
Still having difficulties? Contact UW-IT at help@uw.edu or 206-221-5000.
Student Feedback
Student Resources
Students have the option of taking additional elective coursework at the 400-level or above, in a variety of UW programs and departments , beyond their thesis and thesis practicum requirements. Students are encouraged to consult first and foremost with their thesis advisors about ways of incorporating these activities into the thesis practicum.
Students in the Global Studies major are passionate about understanding global and intercultural issues that unite or divide people and places. Global Studies majors spend time in conversation about topics like diplomacy, human rights, and global challenges.
Students must be registered and enrolled in the quarter that they graduate. To graduate students must fulfill all degree requirements and submit their master&#8217;s degree request by the relevant deadline. In their master&#8217;s degree request, select the &#8220;thesis&#8221; option.
Students who do not complete all degree requirements by the last day of the quarter in which they plan to graduate must register for the following quarter and resubmit their master&#8217;s degree request.
Students wishing to receive elective credit for courses taken in other departments (either at UW Bothell or UW Seattle) must fill out a Petition for Outside Coursework and obtain faculty approval.
Study Abroad
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-100)"
style="color:var(--wp--custom--color--purple-300)"
Summer
Tacoma Campus
Take advantage of the free resources offered by UW Bothell’s Career Services team. From mock interviews to internships and events, Career Services has everything you need to plan for your future!
Terms
The Capstone is an independent research project intended to be the culmination of the degree program. Building on the networking and research done in the Practicum as well as the planning and design work from the previous quarter, students will work with a faculty advisor to complete and write up their own research. Depending on the nature of the research question and the kind of partners or collaborators students engage, the capstone manuscript may take different formats. In general, capstone manuscripts will include a description of the policy problem, literature review, description of research methods, review of research findings, and conclusions or implications.
The first year provides students with an immersive, structured, full-time curricular experience that pairs creative writing workshops with poetics seminars quarterly. First-year students complete 15 credits of writing workshops and 15 credits of poetics seminars, before advancing to thesis work the following year. **The sequence of workshops and seminars may vary.
The focus of the second year is thesis-intensive, focused on the development and completion of independent creative work, in or across the genre(s), form(s), or media of your choosing, and a poetics statement that situates you and your artistic practice. Students complete 15 credits of thesis work for the degree, under the mentorship of a thesis advisor and a second reader.
The following degree requirements are required as of Autumn 2024 quarter. Students who entered the Global Studies (GST) major prior to Autumn 2024 have different requirements. Please see your Academic Advisor for questions and academic planning.
The Global Studies (GST) major at the University of Washington Bothell engages students in active learning about critical policy and governance issues that provide insight about living and working in globally-connected environments. Academic and other learning experiences about political and social movements as well as demographic changes focus on theories of nationalism, representation, feminism, and postcolonialism to understand the practice of globalization.
The Global Studies curriculum advances the five core IAS learning objectives . Students taking courses and/or majoring in Global Studies will address the following learning objectives:
The MA in Policy Studies Dates & Deadlines are available to students, staff, and faculty by logging in the MAPS Degree Resources Canvas . Signing in with your NetID is required.
The MFA in Creative Writing & Poetics at UW Bothell consists of a residency program in its first year, with residency and non-residency options in its second year. Students participate in the program as a member of a cohort of 12-16 MFA students.
The Policy Studies curriculum reflects an innovative, integrated approach to the study of contemporary policy issues in local and global contexts. It prepares students for policy-related analyst and leadership careers in public, private and non-profit organizations.
The primary goal of this class is to help students develop the statistical skills needed to be independent policy researchers. It lays the basic foundation for both academic and practical investigation. This course begins your training by surveying important aspects of the conduct of research into social scientific questions. By the end of the quarter, you will be able to apply appropriate univariate, bivariate, and multivariate statistical techniques to answering research questions; understand the principles and logic behind statistical methods deployed in the course; utilize SPSS to execute a data analysis project and draw statistical inferences; and apply statistical knowledge to understand policy case studies.
The second year can be completed in residency or non-residency, part-time or full-time. (See sample pathways, above).
The University of Washington offers numerous free resources to help IAS students prepare for a career after college. Featured career planning tools are listed on the IAS Student Resources page.
There are many options available to students when it comes to choosing electives. The first place to look is at the BPOLST elective offerings, located for the year on the current courses page. Students can also take graduate level coursework in other degrees, or 400-level classes that are relevant to their field of study. To find other UWB courses, please refer to the UWB Time Schedule . To find courses on the Seattle campus, please refer to the UWS Time Schedule .
There are no official prerequisites for this major in the School of IAS.
Thesis (1-10 CR)
Thesis Practicum (1-5 CR)
Thesis Work
This course focuses on political and institutional aspects of public policy processes. It examines rationales for public policy and the processes in which they are articulated and negotiated; formulation of policies; selection of policy instruments; policy implementation; and policy analysis. The course pays particular attention to methods and approaches commonly used to analyze policy at the formation and implementation stages of policy-making, including cost-benefit analysis, trend analysis, and deliberative approaches.
This course provides an overview of the major literatures in organization theory and management. Assignments focus on developing managerial skills such as: supervising subordinates, building a team, mapping stakeholders, problem-spotting, and evaluating existing programs. Special attention will be devoted to methods and approaches to program evaluation, including logic models, participatory approaches, and rational/quantitative approaches.
This four-course sequence of quarterly one-credit courses develops students’ professional competence in a number of areas essential to the field of policy work. Workshops deepen skills in applied policy ethics, conflict resolution, policy writing and public speaking, and oral presentation of policy information. Students also network with alumni, professionals active in the field, and other faculty in the program in order to structure their MAPS experience and explore policy perspectives from multiple points of view.
This two-week intensive course at the end of September prepares students for BPOLST 502 and more advanced statistics in the future, by providing a survey of college-level mathematical and foundational statistical methods. Topics to be covered include statistical notation, population, sampling distribution and standard normal distributions, graphs and tables, inferential statistics, descriptive statistics and correlations.
Time Schedule
Tips for exploring graduate school
TOTAL = 70 Credits
Total required credits= 48
Undergraduate
Undergraduate degrees offered in the School of IAS prepare students for a wide variety of graduate programs. If you think you might be interested in earning a master’s or doctoral degree, start planning now!
University of Washington Bothell Homepage
Upper Division Credit Policy: A maximum of 35 credits earned in 100- and 200-level courses may apply toward the major. Remaining credits must be earned in upper division courses (300-level and above).
Using their ability to work effectively with global and diverse perspectives, graduates in the Global Studies major serve in business, education, law, social services, security and defense, and public administration across various governmental sectors.
UW Bothell Facebook
UW Bothell Home
UW Bothell Instagram
UW Bothell Linkedin
UW Bothell students in good academic standing (cumulative GPA of 2.0 or above) can declare a major in Global Studies at any time using the online Major Declaration Form .
UW Bothell Twitter
UW Bothell Youtube
Visitors
Washington D.C. Travel Assistance Fund
Why Policy Studies?
Winter
Winter Quarter
Workday Login
Writing Workshop (5 CR)
Writing Workshops
Year
Year 2: Sample Pathway
Year One
Year One – Requirements
Year Two
Year Two – Requirements
You should be prompted to sign into Microsoft. Please use your UW NetID to login
