Owner: uw-seattle-architectural-studies
Source: https://arch.be.uw.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/5/2024/01/BA-Arch-Studies_20240124.pdf
Title: UW ARCHITECTURE arch.be.washington.edu Bachelor of Arts In Architectural Studies ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS YEAR TWO REQUIRED ARCH COURSES YEAR 3 + 4 REQUIREMENTS The Bachelor of Arts in Architectural Studies is a four-year, undergraduate degree program in which students explore the many factors that shape our built environment. The program provides a liberal studies approach to the study of architecture that covers spatial reasoning, aesthetics, political and economic structures with attention to social justice and equity, socio- cultural influences, urbanism, landscape, construction, building technologies, climate responsiveness and environmental systems. It gives students the opportunity to focus their studies through a sequence of courses that allows concentration in one of three areas: Before graduation, students must also complete two Writing (W) courses for a minimum total of 10 credits, and 5 credits of Diversity (DIV) course(s). These courses may also count toward any other requirement, except the 5-credit English composition requirement. Students should complete some or all of these requirements prior to admission to the Architecture program. DIRECT ADMISSION FOR FRESHMAN Students accepted to the UW who indicate Architectural Studies as the preferred major on the freshman application are considered for direct admission to the Department of Architecture’s BA program. Students must complete prerequisite courses sophomore year. UW freshmen application deadline is November 15. SOPHOMORE-YEAR ADMISSION Sophomore-year admission is open to UW freshmen who will have completed at least 45 credits by the time of admission into the program, including Year Two required courses. The application deadline for sophomore admission is the first day of spring quarter. JUNIOR-YEAR ADMISSION Junior year admission requires the completion of Year Two required courses and a minimum of 90 credits. The application deadline for junior admission is the first day of spring quarter. Admission decisions are based on an applicant’s academic performance and potential, extent and quality of relevant experience, and personal motivation. Completion of Year Two requirements does not guarantee admission. TRANSFER ADMISSION Transfer students may apply for admission to the program at the beginning of the sophomore year or at the beginning of the junior year. Departmental program application deadlines are the same as for Sophomore or Junior year Admission. A separate application is required for UW admission. UW transfer deadline for Fall entry is February 15. English Composition (ENGL 131 Preferred) ARCH 200: Design and Representation I ARCH 332: Making and Materials ARCH 469: Architecture Capstone* ARCH 231: Making and Craft ARCH 361: Architectural Studies Colloquium Area of Concentration selective courses from approved lists (minimum 9cr) ARCH 350: Architecture of the Ancient World ARCH 362: Architecture and Theory* ARCH 351: Arch of Medieval & Early Mod World ARCH 431: Energy and Buildings Additional Area of Consentration selective courses, one from each area of concentration (minumum 9cr) College of Built Environment elective courses (minimum 6cr) Architecture elective courses (minimum 15cr) Upper division elective courses (minimum 23cr) * These courses can count as writing credits with persmission of instructor ARCH 352: History of Modern Architecture ARCH 468: Architecture Capstone Preparation Total in Areas of Inquiry Arts & Humanities (A&H) Social Sciences (SSc) Natural Sciences (NSc) (including MATH 112, 124, or Q SCI 291) Additional Areas of Inquiry 5cr 5cr 5cr 6cr (wi) (sp) (au) (wi) (sp) (au) (au) (au) (sp) (sp) (wi) 3cr 5cr 66cr 5cr 5cr 3 3cr 3cr 3 2 5 5 3cr 3cr 20cr 20cr 20cr 6cr The complete Departmental application for sophomores, juniors, or transfer students applying for Fall Quarter admittance includes transcripts, DARS (degree audit report), a personal statement, writing sample, and resume. Samples of work are optional but recommended. January 2024 To apply or for more information: http://arch.be.washington.edu/programs-courses/ba-arch • History, Theory, and Criticism • Materials and Making • Sustainable Development The Department of Architecture offers a Bachelor of Arts in Architectural Studies for students who are interested in architecture as a cultural, social, and technological field of study.

[Page 1] UW ARCHITECTURE arch.be.washington.edu Bachelor of Arts In Architectural Studies ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS GENERAL EDUCATION REQUIREMENTS YEAR TWO REQUIRED ARCH COURSES YEAR 3 + 4 REQUIREMENTS The Bachelor of Arts in Architectural Studies is a four-year, undergraduate degree program in which students explore the many factors that shape our built environment. The program provides a liberal studies approach to the study of architecture that covers spatial reasoning, aesthetics, political and economic structures with attention to social justice and equity, socio- cultural influences, urbanism, landscape, construction, building technologies, climate responsiveness and environmental systems. It gives students the opportunity to focus their studies through a sequence of courses that allows concentration in one of three areas: Before graduation, students must also complete two Writing (W) courses for a minimum total of 10 credits, and 5 credits of Diversity (DIV) course(s). These courses may also count toward any other requirement, except the 5-credit English composition requirement. Students should complete some or all of these requirements prior to admission to the Architecture program. DIRECT ADMISSION FOR FRESHMAN Students accepted to the UW who indicate Architectural Studies as the preferred major on the freshman application are considered for direct admission to the Department of Architecture’s BA program. Students must complete prerequisite courses sophomore year. UW freshmen application deadline is November 15. SOPHOMORE-YEAR ADMISSION Sophomore-year admission is open to UW freshmen who will have completed at least 45 credits by the time of admission into the program, including Year Two required courses. The application deadline for sophomore admission is the first day of spring quarter. JUNIOR-YEAR ADMISSION Junior year admission requires the completion of Year Two required courses and a minimum of 90 credits. The application deadline for junior admission is the first day of spring quarter. Admission decisions are based on an applicant’s academic performance and potential, extent and quality of relevant experience, and personal motivation. Completion of Year Two requirements does not guarantee admission. TRANSFER ADMISSION Transfer students may apply for admission to the program at the beginning of the sophomore year or at the beginning of the junior year. Departmental program application deadlines are the same as for Sophomore or Junior year Admission. A separate application is required for UW admission. UW transfer deadline for Fall entry is February 15. English Composition (ENGL 131 Preferred) ARCH 200: Design and Representation I ARCH 332: Making and Materials ARCH 469: Architecture Capstone* ARCH 231: Making and Craft ARCH 361: Architectural Studies Colloquium Area of Concentration selective courses from approved lists (minimum 9cr) ARCH 350: Architecture of the Ancient World ARCH 362: Architecture and Theory* ARCH 351: Arch of Medieval & Early Mod World ARCH 431: Energy and Buildings Additional Area of Consentration selective courses, one from each area of concentration (minumum 9cr) College of Built Environment elective courses (minimum 6cr) Architecture elective courses (minimum 15cr) Upper division elective courses (minimum 23cr) * These courses can count as writing credits with persmission of instructor ARCH 352: History of Modern Architecture ARCH 468: Architecture Capstone Preparation Total in Areas of Inquiry Arts & Humanities (A&H) Social Sciences (SSc) Natural Sciences (NSc) (including MATH 112, 124, or Q SCI 291) Additional Areas of Inquiry 5cr 5cr 5cr 6cr (wi) (sp) (au) (wi) (sp) (au) (au) (au) (sp) (sp) (wi) 3cr 5cr 66cr 5cr 5cr 3 3cr 3cr 3 2 5 5 3cr 3cr 20cr 20cr 20cr 6cr The complete Departmental application for sophomores, juniors, or transfer students applying for Fall Quarter admittance includes transcripts, DARS (degree audit report), a personal statement, writing sample, and resume. Samples of work are optional but recommended. January 2024 To apply or for more information: http://arch.be.washington.edu/programs-courses/ba-arch • History, Theory, and Criticism • Materials and Making • Sustainable Development The Department of Architecture offers a Bachelor of Arts in Architectural Studies for students who are interested in architecture as a cultural, social, and technological field of study.
[Page 2] UW ARCHITECTURE Bachelor of Arts in Architectural Studies Curriculum AUTUMN WINTER SPRING Gray indicates courses that are taught only in particular quarters and must be taken in sequence. All other courses are offered in multiple quarters. YEAR 4 Sustainable Technologies Selective (3) ARCH 468 Arch Capstone Preparation (3) ARCH 469 Arch Capstone (6) Arch Elective (3) Arch Elective (3) Arch Elective (3) Area of Concentration Selective (3) Arch Elective (3) College Elective (3) Upper Division Elective (5) Upper Division Elective (5) Upper Division Elective (3) 14 credits 14 credits 15 credits YEAR 2 ARCH 350 Architecture of the Ancient World (3) ARCH 351 Arch of Medieval & Early Mod World (3) ARCH 352 History of Modern Architecture (3) Social Sciences (5) Social Sciences Areas of Inquiry Elective (3) (5) Natural Sciences (5) ARCH 200 Design and Representation I (5) Arts & Humanities (5) ARCH 231 Making and Craft (5) Areas of Inquiry (3) 13 credits 16 credits 16 credits YEAR 1 Arts & Humanities (5) Arts & Humanities (5) Arts & Humanities (5) Calculus (5) Social Sciences (5) Social Sciences (5) English Composition (5) Natural Sciences (5) Natural Sciences (5) 15 credits 15 credits 15 credits YEAR 3 ARCH 361 Arch Studies Colloquium (5) ARCH 362 Architecture and Theory (5) ARCH 431 Energy and Buildings (3) Arch Elective (3) Area of Concentration Selective (3) Area of Concentration Selective (3) ARCH 332 Making and Materials (5) Making and Materials Selective (3) History and Theory Selective (3) College Elective (3) Upper Division Elective (5) Upper Division Elective (5) 16 credits 16 credits 14 credits
