Owner: uw-seattle-mathematics
Source: https://math.washington.edu/undergraduate-major-requirements
Title: Undergraduate Major Requirements | Department of Mathematics | University of Washington

Undergraduate Major Requirements | Department of Mathematics | University of Washington
Skip to main content
Washington
University of Washington
College of Arts & Sciences
Quick links
Quick Links
Directories
Maps
MyUW
User account menu
Search
Search
Give now
Main menu
Department of Mathematics
Menu
People
Full Directory
Faculty
Department Faculty
Emeriti Faculty
In Memoriam
Staff
Graduate Students
Math Tutors
Alumni
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
Program Overview
Major Declaration
Advising & Academic Support
Math Student Guide
Graduate
Admissions
Graduate Student Guide
Courses & Registration
Annual Course Overview
Current & Upcoming
Course Descriptions & Materials
Registration Information
Transfer Credit Evaluations
Course or Instructor Concerns
Teaching Endorsement
Outreach
UW Mathday
UW Math Circle
SIMUW
Y Math
Husky Math Academy
All Outreach Links
Research
Fields of Interest
Seminars & Other Activities
Pacific Institute for the Mathematical Sciences
Honors & Awards
Math Research Library
WDRP
WXML
Math AI Lab
News & Events
Recent News
Newsletter
Milliman Lectures
Seminars & Other Research Activities
Upcoming Events
Faculty Meetings
Calendar
Resources
Advising & Academic Support
Math Study Center
200-Level Math Lab
Math Major Study Hall
Departmental Users
About
Welcome
Employment
Stay Connected
Support Us
Contact Us
Directories
Maps
MyUW
You are here
Home
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Major Requirements
The Department of Mathematics offers four major options designed to meet the needs of students interested in pure mathematics. These options promote competence in abstract thinking, logical rigor, analysis, expository clarity, and critical writing. A student who studies mathematics will develop skills that are invaluable in almost any area of life, from software development to finance to teaching. Students considering a degree in mathematics should be excited about proof-writing and ready for a challenging and intellectually stimulating degree program!
Admitted to Math Major between Winter 2022 and Autumn 2025
Admitted to Math Major prior to Autumn 2021 (Archived; email Math & ACMS Advising)
MATH Major Restrictions with Other Majors
Switching to BS Option:
BA Math majors, in any option, may request the BS option after completing Math 424 with a 2.0 or higher and is able to complete the BS degree requirements within the University's Academic Satisfactory Progress policy, which can be found on the Policies & Procedures - Office of the University Registrar webpage.
Bachelor of Arts - Standard Option
The Standard option is intended for students who are interested in a versatile degree in Mathematics. Although the requirements for the degree are more liberal than those of the other options, we recommend choosing electives with the idea of gaining more knowledge in a specific area of mathematics, possibly in conjunction with a minor in a related area. Students can choose coursework in algebra, geometry, topology, combinatorics, analysis, number theory, optimization and probability.
Bachelor of Arts - Teacher Preparation Option
The Teacher Preparation option prepares students for teaching careers in secondary or middle schools. The majority of these majors go on to finish a Master's in Teaching. This degree requires students to complete specific coursework designed to give them an in-depth experience in Mathematics. Beyond learning the content of Mathematics, the coursework will teach students how to communicate Mathematics (and their love for the subject) to others.
Bachelor of Arts - Philosophy Option
The Philosophy option allows students to combine mathematics and philosophy. The math courses introduce the student to mathematical reasoning; the philosophy courses complement this method of reasoning with methods that have arisen within the historical tradition of philosophy. Students are encouraged to take coursework specifically in the areas of the Philosophy of Science or Mathematics.
Bachelor of Science Option
<!--
Comprehensive Option
For students who plan to do graduate study in mathematics or those who prefer a more theoretical background in mathematics. In addition to taking courses in real analysis, geometry, complex analysis and modern algebra, students must satisfy an elective requirement. The Department offers a variety of areas of study, including combinatorics, differential equations, dynamical systems, number theory, probability, optimization and numerical analysis.
Comprehensive Option Degree Requirements & Graduation Planning Sheet (PDF)
-->
The B.S. option is ideal for students wanting a strong mathematical foundation or planning to do graduate study in mathematics. The Department offers a variety of areas of study, including real analysis, geometry, complex analysis, modern algebra, combinatorics, differential equations, dynamical systems, number theory, probability, optimization and numerical analysis.
Non-MATH electives
BS Math option majors can apply up to two of the following courses from one department outside of Mathematics towards the Math major electives:
AMATH: 383 / 402 / 403
CSE: 373 or 332 / 374 or 333 / 417 or 421
ECON: 400 / 424 / 484
E E: 416 / 418
PHYS: 321 / 322 / 324
PHIL: 470 / 471 / 472
Once the non-MATH elective has been completed with a grade of 2.0 or higher, Math majors need to email advising@math.washington.edu ; ideally, within 7 days of completing the class, for the purpose of fulfilling the departmental Continuation Policy and to have the course applied towards the major. Math majors do not have priority registration for the courses listed above, and students are expected to meet prerequisite requirements.
Major Requirements Winter 2022 though Autumn 2025
B.A. Mathematics - Standard Major Requirements PRIOR TO WINTER 2026
B.A. Mathematics – Teacher Preparation Major Requirements PRIOR TO WINTER 2026
B.A. Mathematics – Philosophy Major Requirements PRIOR TO WINTER 2026
B.S. Mathematics Major Requirements PRIOR TO WINTER 2026
Major Requirements Prior to Autumn 2021 (Archived)
B.A. Standard Option Requirements & Graduation Planning Sheet PRIOR TO AUTUMN 2021 (PDF)
B.A. Teacher Prep Option Requirements & Graduation Planning Sheet PRIOR TO AUTUMN 2021 (PDF)
B.A. Philosophy Option Requirements & Graduation Planning Sheet PRIOR TO AUTUMN 2021 (PDF)
B.S. Option Requirements & Graduation Planning Sheet PRIOR TO AUTUMN 2021 (PDF)
Major Requirements Prior to Autumn 2018 (Archived)
B.A. Standard Option Requirements & Graduation Planning Sheet PRIOR TO AUTUMN 2017 (PDF)
B.S. Standard Option Requirements & Graduation Planning Sheet PRIOR TO AUTUMN 2018 (PDF)
B.S. Comprehensive Option Requirements & Graduation Planning Sheet PRIOR TO AUTUMN 2018 (PDF)
MATH Major Restrictions with Other Majors
Any MATH option, no doubles with the ACMS major
Share
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
Program Overview
Major Declaration
Advising & Academic Support
Math Student Guide
Graduate
Courses & Registration
Teaching Endorsement
Support Math
Calendar
Linkedin
Instagram
Alumni Update
Department of Mathematics
University of Washington
Administrative Office
C-138 Padelford
Box 354350
Seattle, WA 98195-4350
Phone: (206) 543-1150
Fax: (206) 543-0397
For all academic inquiries, please contact:
Math Student Services
C-36 Padelford
Phone: (206) 543-6830
Fax: (206) 616-6974
advising@math.washington.edu
Privacy
Terms
Site Map
Alumni Update
Contact Us
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
