Owner: uw-seattle-danish
Source: https://scandinavian.washington.edu/ba-danish
Title: B.A. in Danish | Department of Scandinavian Studies | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Finnish
[Supplemental official source] Norwegian
[Supplemental official source] Scandinavian Area Studies
[Supplemental official source] Swedish
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
318 Raitt hall
60 credits of which 25 are on the 300 level or above + 5 cr Capstone (As of Autumn, 2022).
60 credits of which 30 are on the 300 level or above
About
Adjunct & Affiliate Faculty
Admissions
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Advising
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
Alumni Update
Annual Report
As part of the degree, students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in a Scandinavian or Baltic language such as Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish, Estonian, Latvian, or Lithuanian. Because most language 101 courses are available only in the fall, students should sign up for one of these classes as early as possible. If you have previous experience studying one of these languages, schedule a placement test by emailing uwscand@uw.edu .
B.A. in Danish
B.A. in Danish | Department of Scandinavian Studies | University of Washington
B.A. in Scandinavian Area Studies
Baltic Studies Program
Box 353420
By earning a B.A. in Danish, students gain experience with a culture whose global influences have been as wide-ranging as hygge and LEGO. Students build advanced linguistic skills through a program in language and literature. They enhance their worldview with cultural knowledge of Denmark, Scandinavia, and the Baltics; specialized courses on literature and culture; and study-abroad opportunities in Denmark. Prepared with knowledge from world leaders in welfare, business, and gender equity, graduates pursue careers in business and nonprofit work, law, academia, and STEM industries across the globe.
Capstone Project
Careers
College of Arts & Sciences
Contact Us
Course substitutions are made on approval of the Undergraduate Adviser.
Courses
Credits earned during studies in Denmark can be transferred in consultation with the Foreign Study Office and the Scandinavian Department.
Credits earned during studies in Finland can be transferred in consultation with the Foreign Study Office and the Scandinavian Department.
Credits earned during studies in Norway can be transferred in consultation with the Foreign Study Office and the Scandinavian Department.
Credits earned during studies in Sweden can be transferred in consultation with the Foreign Study Office and the Scandinavian Department.
Crossing North Podcast
Danish
DANISH 310 Topics in Danish Short Prose
DANISH 311 Topics in Danish Literature and Culture
DANISH 312 Topics in the Danish Novel
DANISH 395 Foreign Study: Danish Area Studies
DANISH 399 Foreign Study: Topics in Danish Literature and Culture
DANISH 490 Supervised Reading
Department Faculty
Department of Scandinavian Studies
Destinations
Directories
Dissertations
Diversity and Equity
Each of our majors has an option to pursue departmental honors . Students who are interested should meet with the undergraduate adviser to learn more about the requirements.
Emergency Resources
Estonian
Events Calendar
Facebook
Faculty
Faculty News
FAQ
Featured Courses
Fields of Interest
Finnish
Finnish Program History Why Study Finnish? Support Finnish Studies
First Year Danish 1 (DANISH 101) is available only in the fall quarter. Because the core of the Danish major is building advanced linguistic skills over the course of two years and two additional quarters (8 academic quarters), students should sign up for DAN 101 as early as possible. If you have previous training in Danish, you may apply for Credit by Special Examination and enroll in a higher level of Danish language study.
First- and second-year courses in Danish (30 credits)
First- and second-year courses in target language (Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, Swedish) (30 credits)
Frequently Asked Questions
Graduate
Graduate Students
History
Home
Icelandic
Instagram
Latvian
Lithuanian
M.A. Degree
Mailing List
Main menu
Main Office Hours: Mon., Wed., Fri. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Tu., Thu. 1 to 5 p.m. Please email uwscand@uw.edu any time.
Major Requirements
Majors
Make a Gift
Maps
Menu
Minors
Mission & Characteristics
More about the Finnish Program
More ways to connect
MyUW
New Directions Series
News & Events
Newsletter
Non-Degree Study
Norwegian
Organizations & Links
Other courses may be substituted per discussion with the Undergraduate Adviser.
Our Grads
Our Programs
People
Ph.D. Degree
Phone: (206) 543-0645
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Research
Resources
Resources & Opportunities
SCAND 232 Hans Christian Andersen and the Fairy Tale (as DAN 490 credits)
SCAND 312 Masterpieces of Scandinavian Literature
SCAND 315 Scandinavian Crime Fiction
SCAND 316 Child and School in Scandinavia
SCAND 327 Women in Scandinavian Society
SCAND 330 Scandinavian Mythology
SCAND 331 Folk Narrative
SCAND 334 Immigrant and Ethnic Folklore
SCAND 335 Scandinavian Children's Literature
SCAND 340 Kalevala and the Epic Tradition
SCAND 341 Sami Culture and History
SCAND 344 The Baltic States and Scandinavia
SCAND 345 Baltic Cultures
SCAND 360 Scandinavian Cinema
SCAND 361 Danish Cinema
SCAND 365 Finnish Popular Culture
SCAND 367 Sexuality in Scandinavia: Myth and Reality
SCAND 370 The Vikings
SCAND 380 History of Scandinavia to 1720
SCAND 381 History of Scandinavia Since 1720
SCAND 399 Foreign Study in Scandinavia
SCAND 402 International Political Economy and Scandinavia
SCAND 427 Scandinavian Women Writers in English Translation
SCAND 430 Readings in Folklore
SCAND 431 The Northern European Ballad
SCAND 445 War and Occupation in Northern Europe: History, Fiction, and Memoir
SCAND 450 Scandinavian Literary History
SCAND 454 Baltic History
SCAND 455 Baltic Politics and Society Today
SCAND 460 History of the Scandinavian Languages
SCAND 465 Translation Workshop in Nordic and Baltic Languages
SCAND 470 Scandinavian Auteurs
SCAND 480 Kierkegaard and Decadence in European Literature
SCAND 480 Kierkegaard and the Existentialist Tradition
SCAND 481 August Strindberg and European Cultural History
SCAND 482 Knut Hamsun and Early European Modernism
SCAND 490 Special Topics
SCAND 495 Foreign Study: Research Project
SCAND 498 Senior Capstone Project (5 credits)
SCAND 498 Senior Capstone Project(5 credits)
SCAND 499 Independent Study or Research
Scandinavian Area Studies
Scholarships
Scholarships & Stipends
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-3420
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Employees
Students who earn a B.A. in Scandinavian Area Studies develop a new, enhanced understanding of the world through studying the culture, politics, and history of Scandinavia. The program provides diverse options for students to learn, including small, seminar-style classes; interdisciplinary study abroad opportunities ; and exceptional programs to connect to Scandinavian and Baltic communities on or near campus. Students develop strong linguistic, research, and communication skills in a welcoming, inclusive academic environment. Prepared with knowledge from world leaders in welfare, business, and gender equity, graduates pursue careers in business and nonprofit work, law, academia, and STEM industries across the globe.
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Summer Study
Support Scandinavian Studies
Support Us
Swedish
Terms
Three upper-division SCAND courses, such as: (15 credits)
Two upper-division courses in Danish from list of approved courses. (10 credits)
Undergraduate
University of Washington
Upcoming Courses
Upper-division SCAND courses from list of approved courses. (25 credits)
User account menu
UW-Bergen Faculty Exchange
uwscand@uw.edu
Visiting Scholar Application
Washington
Welcome
You are here
