Owner: uw-seattle-english-language-literature-and-culture
Source: https://english.washington.edu/english-language-literature-and-culture-option
Title: English, Language, Literature, and Culture Option | Department of English | University of Washington

(1) Theories and Methodologies of English Language and Literature
(2) Forms and Genres of Language and Literature
(3) Cultures in Context
(Excluded courses are ENGL 285, Writers on Writing; ENGL 297, 298, and 299 Interdisciplinary Writing courses; ENGL 491, Internships; and ENGL 474-476, courses associated with the Puget Sound Writing Project; these cannot be counted toward the English major Distribution or Electives requirement.)
[Supplemental official source] English Composition Requirement
[Supplemental official source] old requirements
[Supplemental official source] Older Requirements
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
10 credits in ENGL courses must be focused on pre-1945 Literature and 5 credits of pre-1700 literature.
A Minimum grade of 2.0 required. Must be taken within two quarters of declaring the English major per department continuation/satisfactory progress policy.
A minimum of 60 credits in English courses:
A Senior Capstone
A101 Padelford Hall
About
About the Readings
Additional Resources
Adjuncts & Affiliates
Admission
Admission to the English Major:
Admission to the major
Advising
Affiliated Journals & Publications
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
AP and IB credit does not satisfy the UW's English Composition requirement, even if you are a transfer student and your prior school allowed you to count AP or IB as composition.
As an alternative to the special topics courses, "ENGL 490: Professionalization and Public Life" focuses on the role of the humanities in the world and helps students prepare for the job market, graduate school, and other post-graduation plans.
At least 30 ENGL credits applicable to the English major must be taken in residence at the UW Seattle.
Autumn 2005 through Spring 2010
Autumn 2010 through Spring 2012
Autumn 2012 through Spring 2013
Autumn 2016 through Spring 2019
Awards
BA in English, Creative Writing Option
BA in English, Language and Literature Option
Box 354330
Careers & Internships
Classes in the core sequence (202, 302, Capstone) do not fulfill the distribution areas, nor does ENGL 201, "Introduction to the Study of English in the Humanities."
College of Arts & Sciences
Community Literacy Program
Comparative Literature : C LIT 240
Computer-Integrated Courses
Consider a more advanced course if you have a strong writing background
Consider Interdisciplinary Writing Program courses
Consider summer quarter
Consider summer quarter . There is excellent course availability in the summer quarter, and continuing UW students usually have no problem gaining access to these courses.
Contact Us
Course Goals: While core courses may not achieve every goal, they will participate in the conversations represented in these goals as a central feature.
Course list :
Course list:
Course Offerings
Courses
Courses fulfilling the UW English composition requirement include
Creative Writing
Creative Writing:
Department Faculty
Department Meetings
Department of English
Department of English Admission and Continuation Policy (PDF) (rules for satisfactory progress)
Description: These courses foreground theoretical approaches or methodological developments, including how they affect formal or historical topics. They explore how theories and methods such as Marxism, psychoanalysis, structuralism, phenomenology, reader reception, feminism, critical race theory or ethnography have influenced the production, practice or study of literature, language and culture in English.
Desperate?
Directories
Distribution Areas:
Diversity & Equity
Diversity and Equity
Educational Opportunity Program courses (for EOP students only): ENGL 109 + 110 (both courses must be completed in order to earn "C" credit)
Eligible Courses
Emergency Plan
Emeriti Faculty
ENGL 111, 121, 131, 182
ENGL 111, 121, 131, 182 : students may take no more than one course from this group. If you have already earned credit for one of these three courses with a grade of at least 2.0 (either at the UW or in your transfer record), the registration system will not allow you to sign up for a second one from this group.
ENGL 200: Reading Literary Forms
ENGL 202 (Introduction to English Language and Literature)
ENGL 202, 302, and the Senior Capstone require minimum grades of 2.0 in each course. English majors must maintain a minimum overall GPA of 2.00 in all UW ENGL courses.
ENGL 204: Popular Fiction & Media
ENGL 205: Method, Imagination, and Inquiry
ENGL 206: Rhetoric in Everyday Life
ENGL 207: Introduction to Cultural Studies (GML)
ENGL 207: Introduction to Cultural Studies (P&D)
ENGL 208: Data and Narrative (GML)
ENGL 208: Data and Narrative (P&D)
ENGL 210 Medieval and Early Modern Literature, 400 to 1600
ENGL 211 Literature, 1500-1800
ENGL 212 Literature, 1700-1900
ENGL 213: Modern and Postmodern Literature
ENGL 225 Shakespeare
ENGL 242: Reading Prose Fiction
ENGL 243: Reading Poetry
ENGL 244: Reading Drama
ENGL 250: American Literature
ENGL 251: Literature & American Political Culture
ENGL 256: Introduction to Queer Cultural Studies (GML)
ENGL 256: Introduction to Queer Cultural Studies (P&D)
ENGL 257 (Asian-American Literature)
ENGL 257: Introduction to Asian American Literature
ENGL 258 (Introduction to African American Literature)
ENGL 258: Introduction to African American Literature
ENGL 259 (Literature and Social Difference)
ENGL 259: Literature and Social Difference
ENGL 259: Literature and Social Difference (P&D)
ENGL 262: Introduction to Latina/o Literature
ENGL 265 (Introduction to Environmental Humanities)
ENGL 265: Introduction to Environmental Humanities (GML)
ENGL 265: Introduction to Environmental Humanities (P&D)
ENGL 266: Literature and Technology
ENGL 270: The Uses of the English Language
ENGL 277: Introduction to Children’s and Young Adult Literature
ENGL 281: Intermediate Expository Writing
ENGL 282: Intermediate Multimodal Composition
ENGL 283: Beginning Verse Writing
ENGL 284: Beginning Short Story Writing
ENGL 285: Writers on Writing
ENGL 288: Introduction to Professional and Technical Writing
ENGL 296: Critical Literacy in the Natural Sciences
ENGL 297: Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Humanities
ENGL 298: Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Social Sciences
ENGL 299: Intermediate Interdisciplinary Writing - Natural Sciences
ENGL 300: Reading Major Texts (can also count as pre-1700 depending on texts)
ENGL 302 (Critical Practice): 5 credits
ENGL 302 Critical Practice (counts as a theory requirement for Creative Writing Students only)
ENGL 303 (History of Literary Criticism and Theory I)
ENGL 303 History of Literary Criticism and Theory I (GML)
ENGL 303: History of Literary Criticism and Theory I (HD)
ENGL 304 (History of Literary Criticism and Theory II)
ENGL 304: History of Literary Criticism and Theory II
ENGL 305 (Theories of the Imagination)
ENGL 306 (Introduction to Rhetoric)
ENGL 306: Introduction to Rhetoric
ENGL 307 (Cultural Studies)
ENGL 307: Cultural Studies
ENGL 307: Cultural Studies (P&D)
ENGL 308 (Marxism and Literary Theory)
ENGL 308: Marxism and Literary Theory
ENGL 309 (Theories of Reading)
ENGL 309: Theories of Reading
ENGL 310 The Bible as Literature
ENGL 311: Modern Jewish Literature in Translation
ENGL 312 (Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern)
ENGL 312 Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern (P&D)
ENGL 312: Jewish Literature: Biblical to Modern (HD)
ENGL 313: Modern European Literature in Translation
ENGL 314: Transatlantic Literature and Culture (HD)
ENGL 314: Transatlantic Literature and Culture (P&D)
ENGL 315 (Literary Modernism)
ENGL 315: Literary Modernism (GML)
ENGL 315: Literary Modernism (HD)
ENGL 316 (Postcolonial Literature and Culture)
ENGL 316: Postcolonial Literature and Culture
ENGL 317 (Literature of the Americas)
ENGL 317: Literature of the Americas
ENGL 318 (Black Literary Genres)
ENGL 318: Black Literary Genres (DIV, GML)
ENGL 318: Black Literary Genres (P&D)
ENGL 319 (African Literatures)
ENGL 319: African Literatures (DIV)
ENGL 320 (English Literature: The Middle Ages)
ENGL 320 English Literature: The Middle Ages
ENGL 321 Chaucer
ENGL 322 (English Literature: The Age of Elizabeth)
ENGL 322 Medieval & Early Modern Literatures of Encounter (HD)
ENGL 322 Medieval & Early Modern Literatures of Encounter (P&D)
ENGL 323 Shakespeare to 1603
ENGL 324 Shakespeare after 1603
ENGL 325 Early Modern English Literature
ENGL 326 Milton (GML)
ENGL 326: Milton (HD)
ENGL 327 (English Literature: Restoration & Early 18th Century)
ENGL 327 Narratives of Bondage & Freedom (HD)
ENGL 327 Narratives of Bondage & Freedom (P&D)
ENGL 328 Eighteenth Century Literature & Culture
ENGL 329 (Rise of the English Novel)
ENGL 329 Rise of the English Novel (GML)
ENGL 329: Rise of the English Novel (HD)
ENGL 330 (English Literature: The Romantic Age)
ENGL 330 English Literature: The Romantic Age
ENGL 331 (Romantic Poetry I)
ENGL 331 Globalization & Nationalism in the Age of Empire (HD)
ENGL 331 Globalization & Nationalism in the Age of Empire (P&D)
ENGL 332 (Romatic Poetry II)
ENGL 332 Nineteenth Century Poetry (GML)
ENGL 332 Nineteenth Century Poetry (HD)
ENGL 333 Nineteenth Century Novel (GML)
ENGL 333: Nineteenth Century Novel (HD)
ENGL 335 (English Literature: Age of Victoria)
ENGL 335 English Literature: The Victorian Age
ENGL 336 (English Literature: The Early Modern Period)
ENGL 336 English Literature: Early Twentieth Century
ENGL 337 The Modern Novel (GML)
ENGL 337: The Modern Novel (HD)
ENGL 338 Modern Poetry (GML)
ENGL 338: Modern Poetry (HD)
ENGL 339 (English Literature: Contemporary England)
ENGL 339: Globalization & Contemporary World Literature (GML)
ENGL 339: Globalization & Contemporary World Literature (P&D)
ENGL 340 (Modern Anglo-Irish Literature)
ENGL 340: Irish Literature (P&D)
ENGL 341 (Studies in the Novel)
ENGL 341: Studies in the Novel
ENGL 342: Contemporary Novel
ENGL 343 (Studies in Poetry)
ENGL 343: Contemporary Poetry
ENGL 344 (Studies in Drama)
ENGL 344: Studies in Drama
ENGL 345 (Studies in Film)
ENGL 345: Studies in Film
ENGL 346 (Studies in Short Fiction)
ENGL 346: Studies in Short Fiction
ENGL 347 (Studies in Non Fiction Prose)
ENGL 347: Studies in Nonfiction Prose
ENGL 348 (Studies in Popular Culture)
ENGL 348: Studies in Popular Culture
ENGL 349 (Science Fiction and Fantasy)
ENGL 349: Science Fiction & Fantasy
ENGL 349: Science Fiction and Fantasy (P&D)
ENGL 350: American Fiction
ENGL 351 (American Literature: The Colonial Period)
ENGL 351: Writing in the Contact Zone: North America 1492 - 1800 (P&D)
ENGL 351: Writing in the Contact Zone: North America to 1800 (HD)
ENGL 352 (American Literature: The Early Nation)
ENGL 352 Literatures of the United States to 1865 (P&D)
ENGL 352: American Literatures to 1865 (HD)
ENGL 353 (American Literature: The Later 19th Century)
ENGL 353 American Literature: Later Nineteenth Century
ENGL 354 (American Literature: The Early Modern Period)
ENGL 354 American Literature: Early Twentieth Century
ENGL 355 (American Literature: Contemporary America)
ENGL 355: Contemporary American Literature
ENGL 356: American Poetry
ENGL 357 (Jewish American Literature and Culture)
ENGL 357: Jewish American Literature and Culture
ENGL 358 (African American Literature)
ENGL 358: African American Literature
ENGL 359 (Contemporary American Indian Literature)
ENGL 359: Contemporary American Indian Literature
ENGL 360 (American Political Culture: to 1865)
ENGL 360: American Literature & Culture
ENGL 361 (American Political Culture: 1865 - Present)
ENGL 361 (American Political Culture: After 1865)
ENGL 361: American Political Culture After 1865
ENGL 362 ( Latino Literary Genres)
ENGL 362 Latino Literary Genres
ENGL 362: Latino Literary Genres (GML)
ENGL 362: Latino Literary Genres (P&D)
ENGL 363: Literature and Other Arts and Disciplines
ENGL 364: Literature & Medicine
ENGL 364: Literature and Medicine (P&D)
ENGL 365: Literature & Environment (GML)
ENGL 365: Literature and Environment (P&D)
ENGL 366: Literature & Law
ENGL 366: Literature and Law (P&D)
ENGL 367 (Gender Studies in Literature)
ENGL 367: Gender Studies in Literature
ENGL 368 (Women Writers)
ENGL 368: Women Writers
ENGL 369 (Research Methods in Language & Literature)
ENGL 369: Research Methods in Language and Rhetoric
ENGL 370 (English Language Study)
ENGL 370: English Language Study
ENGL 371 (English Syntax)
ENGL 371: English Syntax
ENGL 372 (World Englishes)
ENGL 372: World Englishes (GML)
ENGL 373 (History of the English Language)
ENGL 373: History of the English Language
ENGL 373: History of the English Language (GML)
ENGL 374 (The Language of Literature)
ENGL 374: The Language of Literature
ENGL 375 (Rhetorical Genre Theory & Practice)
ENGL 375: Rhetorical Genre Theory and Practice
ENGL 376: Introduction to Middle English Language (HD)
ENGL 378 (Special Topics in Theories/Methods)
ENGL 378: Special Topics in Genre, Method, & Language
ENGL 379 (Special Topics in Genres/Media)
ENGL 379: Special Topics in Power & Difference
ENGL 380 (Special Topics in Histories)
ENGL 380: Special Topics in History
ENGL 381: Advanced Expository Writing
ENGL 382: Special Topics in Multimodal Composition
ENGL 383: The Craft of Verse
ENGL 384: The Craft of Prose
ENGL 385: Global Modernism (HD)
ENGL 385: Global Modernism (P&D)
ENGL 386: Asian American Literature
ENGL 387: Screenwriting
ENGL 388: Professional and Technical Writing
ENGL 390:Careers in Technical and Professional Communication
ENGL 391: Grant writing
ENGL 392: Technical and Professional Editing
ENGL 394: Big Data, Privacy & Surveillance Rhetorics
ENGL 396: Software Documentation
ENGL 407 (Special Topics in Cultural Studies)
ENGL 411: Introduction to the Folktale
ENGL 413: Programming for Text Analysis
ENGL 421: Old English Language and Literature (GML)
ENGL 421: Old English Language and Literature (HD)
ENGL 422 Arthurian Legends (GML)
ENGL 422: Arthurian Legends (HD)
ENGL 430 (British Writers: Studies in Major Authors)
ENGL 431 (Topics in British Literature)
ENGL 440 (Special Studies in Literature)
ENGL 442 (The Novel: Special Studies)
ENGL 443 (Poetry: Special Studies)
ENGL 444 (Dramatic Literature: Special Studies)
ENGL 451 (American Writers: Studies in Major Authors)
ENGL 452 (Topics in American Literature)
ENGL 453: Introduction to American Folklore
ENGL 457: Pacific Northwest Literature
ENGL 466 (Gay and Lesbian Studies)
ENGL 466: Queer and LGBT Literature
ENGL 470 (Theory and Practice of Teaching Literature)
ENGL 470: Theory and Practice of Teaching Literature
ENGL 471 (Theory and Practice of Teaching Writing)
ENGL 471: Theory and Practice of Teaching Writing
ENGL 472: Language Learning
ENGL 473 (Current Development in English Studies)
ENGL 474: Special Topics in English for Teachers
ENGL 477: Children’s Literature
ENGL 478 (Language and Social Policy)
ENGL 478: Language and Social Policy (GML)
ENGL 478: Language and Social Policy (P&D)
ENGL 479 (Language Variation and Language Policy in North America)
ENGL 479 (Language Variation and Policy in North America)
ENGL 479: Language Variation and Language Policy in North America (GML)
ENGL 479: Language Variation and Language Policy in North America (P&D)
ENGL 480: Workplace Research Methods
ENGL 481: Special Studies in Expository Writing
ENGL 482: Special Topics: Scientific and Medical Communication
ENGL 483: Advanced Verse Workshop
ENGL 484: Advanced Prose Workshop
ENGL 485: Novel Writing
ENGL 486: Playwriting
ENGL 487: Grant Writing
ENGL 488: Writing in Health and Medicine
ENGL 490 Professionalization capstone)
ENGL 496 (English Honors Thesis) - available to English Honors Program students only
ENGL 498 (Senior Seminar)
English 202: Introduction to the Study of English Language and Literature
English 302: Critical Practice
English Composition Requirement
English Composition Strategies
English Composition Strategies | Department of English | University of Washington
English Distribution: 15 credits
English Electives: 30 credits
English GSO
English Major Requirements
English Majors must also take at least 15 credits in each of the following areas:
English Senior Capstone course: 5 credits
English, Language, Literature, and Culture Option
English, Language, Literature, and Culture Option | Department of English | University of Washington
Evening Degree Program
Events Calendar
Example:
Except for students completing the Creative Writing concentration, no more than 5 credits in Creative Writing may be applied toward the major.
Exemptions: the English Department does not offer any placement testing or other processes by which students can be exempted from the requirement. Students who want to ask that the English Composition requirement be waived must petition the University :this is a UW requirement, not an English Department requirement. Work with your academic adviser in your own major to prepare and submit a graduation petition . (Approval for these petitions is exceptionally rare.)
Facebook
Faculty
Faculty Computing
Faculty Dialogue Series
Faculty Guidelines
FAQ
Fields of Interest
Five credits from each of the three distribution categories below.
For assistance with planning and for questions, please visit the Humanities Academic Services Center .
For Employees
For example, ENGL 351 is listed under both “Historical Depth” and “Power and Difference.” However, it will only count in one of those categories in a student's degree progress. The student may choose (and can change their mind, shuffling courses as long as they are enrolled). Students noticing issues with how these classes are applying to the distribution areas in their degree audit can contact an advisor at Humanities Academic Services Center (HAS), A-2-B Padelford Hall for support.
For students who declared the major in the Evening Degree Program prior to Autumn 2014.
Freshmen and Sophomores: take the course in the autumn or winter quarter , either alone or as part of a Freshman Interest Group (FIG) or a Transfer Interest Group (TrIG) if you're a new freshman or transfer student. These courses are restricted to freshman and sophomores during Period 1 registration in autumn and winter, but are open to everyone in spring.
Freshmen Interest Groups (FIGs)
Genre, Method, and Language
Genre, Method, and Language Courses:
Genre, Method, and Language:
Genre:
Grades and GPA Requirements:
Graduate
Graduate Faculty
Graduate Staff
Graduate Students
Graduation
have an English grade point average of at least 2.50 among all English coursework completed at the college level.
have an overall UW grade point average of at least a 2.00;
Have questions?
Historical Breadth :
Historical Depth
Historical Depth Courses:
Historical Depth:
Home
Honors
How to Apply
If the course is full, there is only one thing you can do: keep watching enrollment to see if someone else drops the class, opening up a spot for you. Otherwise, there are no waiting lists, no overloads, no add codes -- no exceptions .
If the course is part of a Freshman Interest Group (FIG) or Transfer Interest Group (TrIG) and you are not taking that FIG or TrIG, check the First Year Programs "Extra Seats" website . Sometimes, when FIGs and TrIGs do not fill up, First Year Programs will release available spots to non FIG or non TrIG students upon request.
If you are a new freshman or transfer student for autumn quarter, you are eligible to sign up for Summer Quarter classes and, if you are a new freshman, you can also take classes during Early Fall Start . Finding space in an open class in these terms tends not to be a problem, even when you are registering late as a new/incoming student.
If you are a new freshman, consider signing up for a Freshman Interest Group (FIG) that contains an approved English composition course during the fall of your freshman year. Most sections of English composition in autumn quarter are associated with the FIG program. FIGS are offered in autumn quarter only.
If you are a new transfer student, consider signing up for a Transfer Interest Group (TrIG) that contains an approved English composition course during your first quarter at the UW. TrIGS are offered in autumn quarter only.
If you declared an English major in Summer 2022 or later, please see the current requirements , otherwise, consult the requirements in effect during the quarter in which you declared:
If you declared the English major prior to AUT 2005, please see an adviser in the Humanities Academic Services Center .
If you declared your English major prior to the start of Summer 2019, please see the older requirement sets pertaining to the quarter and year when you became, or will become, an English major officially.
If you have a strong background in writing, either through high school preparation or through other college writing experiences, consider taking ENGL 281 (Intermediate Expository Writing) or ENGL 381 (Advanced Expository Writing). There are no prerequisites for these courses; however, some college writing background is assumed in ENGL 281, and substantial background is assumed for ENGL 381.
If you need to take classes at the UW while, at the same time, taking English composition elsewhere, it is sometimes possible to work with the Financial Aid Office to draw up a consortium agreement . This allows you to count classes from both schools toward full time enrollment and to disburse your financial aid award for tuition to both schools. Check with the Financial Aid Office if you are considering this.
If you were not able to plan well and have become desperate (for example, you must take an English composition course now to be eligible for a particular major, or you are graduating this quarter, and none of the suggestions above will work for you), then there are two options; however, they come at an additional cost and require additional planning:
Instagram
Interdisciplinary Writing Program courses
IWP Writing Links: consider taking one of the Interdisciplinary Writing Program (IWP) writing links. ENGL 197, 198, 199, 297, 298, 299 are approved English composition courses, but they are not "free standing" classes: they are paired with other courses across the humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences and must be taken concurrently with those courses (10 cr). These writing courses are designed to help students improve their writing skills while further exploring ideas and materials assigned in the lecture courses. Assignments in a writing link always draw on materials from the accompanying lecture course, and often include drafts of papers submitted in the lecture course. ENGL 197, 198, and 199 are linked with lecture courses at the 100-level. ENGL 297, 298, and 299 are linked with courses at the 200-level and above. Lecture courses which offer writing links vary by quarter. While ENGL 297, 298, and 299 are called "Intermediate Writing," there is no pre-requisite — students do not need to take a 100-level writing course before enrolling in a 200-level writing link. Any student who enrolls in a lecture course is eligible to take its link, as space permits. Consult the Time Schedule to find out which lecture courses are linked to various ENGL writing links.
Juniors and Seniors: take the course in spring .These courses are restricted to freshmen and sophomores only during Period 1 registration in autumn and winter.
Language and Literature Option Requirements, Summer 2019 - Spring 2022
Language and Literature Option Requirements, Summer 2019 - Spring 2022 | Department of English | University of Washington
Language and Literature Option: Older Requirements
Language and Literature Option: Older Requirements | Department of English | University of Washington
Language and literature provide the infrastructure for human thought, mediating the interactions of culture and history. In order to understand this mediation, English majors are required to take at least 15 credits organized by form, genre, or methodological framework. The courses gathered in this area provide a tool kit for examining and producing structures in writing, literature, language, and culture. This diverse array offers breadth across disciplinary approaches in English and writing studies. By exploring forms or genres, methods and/or theoretical orientations, and the study of language itself, these classes offer strategies to communicate in a complex world, opening up a global perspective on varieties of English across different registers and communities of practice. They also illustrate how structure plays a vibrant role in meaning; introduce a range of literary styles and forms; offer rich experiences in reading, theorizing, writing and collaborating; help students understand how different methodologies are rooted historically and are contested; and offer different ways of knowing, listening, learning, and communicating.
Language, Literature, and Culture majors will be dropped from ENGL 387 and the 400-level CW courses unless they have special permission from the faculty (even if they have taken all of the pre requisites for these courses). The 400 level courses are critical for the Creative Writing majors to graduate. They must be given priority. If a Language and Literature major is given permission to add ENGL 387 or one of the 400-level CW courses, they will not be able to add until registration period 3.
Language:
Limit on 200-level ENGL credit:
Limit on Creative Writing courses:
LING 200 (Introduction to Linguistic Thought) -- through Department of Linguistics
Literature, language, and culture have been shaped by and in turn shape systems of power. Such systems include capitalism, colonialism, imperialism, and hierarchies of race, status, caste, sex, gender, and sexuality. Over time, systems of power elevate some voices and stories and marginalize and silence others. English majors are required to take at least 15 credits focused on how systems of power operate in and through literature, language, and culture. These courses explore the evolving relationship of literature, language, and culture to structures of violence and dispossession and center critical perspectives that have been marginalized or silenced. They embrace alternative ways of learning about the past and present, and the impress of the former on the latter. They highlight the complex, sometimes contradictory ways in which literature and culture mediate systems of power. In so doing, Power and Difference courses foster our imagination of more just and equitable futures.
MA/PhD
Main menu
Major requirements
Major Requirements
Make a Gift
Maps
MATESOL
meet with a HAS adviser in A-2-B Padelford Hall . At that meeting, the student and adviser will sign a Change of Major form (PDF) to add the English major to the student's official UW record.
meet with a HAS adviser in A-2-B Padelford Hall.
Menu
Method:
MFA
Minimum grade of 2.0 required. We suggest that you take this requirement during the final two quarters in the major, and after successful completion of ENGL 302.
Minors
Mission
Multilingual Language Learner Support
Must be taken within one quarter of declaring the English Major. A minimum grade of 2.0 required. 202 does not count as a pre-1900 after Fall, 2018 .
MyUW
News & Events
Newsletter
No more than 15 credits in 200-level ENGL courses (beyond the introductory ENGL 202 ) may be applied toward the English major electives: all other English credits must be taken at the 300 or 400 level.
No more than 5 credits in creative writing courses may be applied to the Language & Literature English major. Students who have been accepted by the competitive admission process to the English: Creative Writing option follow different requirements.
Note: students who've been accepted to the competitive-admission Creative Writing option in the major may count ENGL 302 toward this category.
Note! If you declared your major after the spring of 2022 , please consult the current requirements . These requirements are for those who declared their major between summer 2019 -- spring 2022).
Note! The requirements described below took effect in Summer 2022 . Students who declared the major before that time should consult the old requirements . If you have questions about which version of the major applies to you, please contact HAS .
Notes:
Odegaard Writing & Research Center
Older Requirements
One course chosen from the capstone list:
Other options are available, but they have drawbacks....
Outreach
Overloads
Past Programs
Past Readers
People
People have been speaking, reading, and writing in English for more than a thousand years, producing literature that is at once timeless and deeply informed by the time in which it was written. Cultural artifacts from the English-speaking world have shaped, and been shaped by, social movements and historical conditions around the globe, as has the language itself. With this in mind, English majors are required to take 15 credits focused on materials produced before 1945, with at least 5 of those credits focused on materials produced before 1700. Distributing coursework in this way helps students to understand the depth, richness, and variability of English literature, language, and culture across time, and dramatizes how the ways we organize history affect the stories we tell about it. These courses open up past worlds that are in some ways totally alien and in others very similar to our own, revealing that what seems real and true to us can radically alter over time. Entering into these past realities offers a new perspective on the present and develops our capacity to imagine alternative futures.
Phone: (206) 543-2690
Please note: this page describes the English major in Language, Literature, and Culture. For the major's other option, see the Concentration in Creative Writing . Unsure of which to choose? Here is a helpful document: English Major Pathways .
Power and Difference
Power and Difference Courses
Pre-1700
Pre-1945
Printers & Scanners
Privacy
Professional Development
Program for Writing Across Campus
Program for Writing Across Campus courses ENGL 197, 198, 199, 297, 298 , or 299
Program in Writing and Rhetoric
Program in Writing and Rhetoric courses ENGL 111, 121, 131, 182, 281 , 282 , 381 or 382
Programs & Courses
Public Pedagogies
Public Scholarship
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Recommended:
Registration Policies
Reimbursement Process
Research
Research Groups
Residency:
Resources
Roethke Reading
Safety & Health
Satisfactory Progress
Scholarships & Financial Support
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-4330
See the Creative Writing application information for separate, additional requirements and procedures for applying to the Creative Writing option within the English major.
Share
Simpson Center for the Humanities
Site Map
Skip to main content
Staff
Starting spring 2025, English majors can use a maximum of 5 credits of ENGL 491 (internship credit) towards one of the distribution areas. Contact Kimberlee Gillis-Bridges ( kgb@uw.edu ) to confirm which area your internship will fulfill.
Stay Connected
Strategies for continuing students:
Strategies for new students:
Student Awards
Students currently enrolled at the University of Washington may declare the English major at any time by meeting with an adviser in the Humanities Academic Services Center (HAS), A-2-B Padelford Hall. Students from historically underrepresented groups are especially encouraged to apply.
Students in the English Department Honors program do not have to complete a separate capstone, as the senior thesis fulfills this requirement.
Students may declare the major during the first two weeks of any quarter. After declaring the English major, students will be eligible to register for courses open only to English majors during Registration Period 1 .
Students must complete a Core Sequence , consisting of: English 202 (Introduction to English Language and Literature), 302 (Critical Practice), and a Senior Capstone. The remaining courses must be distributed across three areas: Historical Depth; Power and Difference ; and Genre, Method, and Language , with 15 credits in each. These areas will overlap, with some courses listed under multiple categories, allowing students to specialize in one area if they so choose. However, each course can ultimately only be used to fulfill one requirement.
Students need to complete just one of these courses (5 credits) to satisfy the UW's English Composition requirement . The UW's second writing requirement, for Additional Writing ("W") (10 credits) can be filled with "W" writing-intensive courses offered across the entire UW curriculum. You do NOT need to take more than one course in English composition -- "W" courses are offered by other departments, from Anthropology to Zoology, and may be available in your intended major. To locate "W" courses, use the Time Schedule's General Education Search page.
Students who are denied admission because they do not meet the minimum requirements above may petition by writing to the English Department's Undergraduate Education Committee. Petitions should give full particulars, including any extenuating circumstances the student believes the Department should consider.
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Summer 2013 through Summer 2015
Summer 2019 through Spring 2022
Summer Quarter and Early Fall Start
Summer quarter is a great time to take classes. There is excellent access for everyone - crowded or full classes are usually not a problem in the summer.
Support English
Support Us
Take an equivalent course at a local community college. All Washington State Community Colleges have courses that transfer to the UW as either direct equivalents (e.g., ENGL 131) or as eligible composition credit (e.g., ENGL 1XX-"C"). To find out which courses transfer, consult the UW Transfer Equivalency Guide . It's also a good idea to double-check with an English Adviser before signing up for a course elsewhere.
Take ENGL 281 through UW Online Learning . Online classes are not the optimal way to build skills in academic writing, but this course is available and does satisfy the UW's English Composition requirement. Online classes are not, however, covered by regular UW tuition because they are part of UW Professional and Continuing Education , which features self-sustaining programs (those not supported by state or public funds). The cost is around $1,880 per 5-credit class on top of whatever you pay in regular UW tuition. Online courses require more diligence and self-motivation than regular campus classes do, and they tend to have a lower completion rate.
Teaching Endorsement
Teaching Resources
Technical and Professional Communication
Terms
The capstone must be completed in a student's final year. Capstones offer advanced study of a special topic, and involve independent research that enables students to build on the skills and expertise they have gained in English major courses.
The department also strongly recommends , but does not require, 5 credits in one of the following English language courses:
The English department supports the central importance of the UW's requirement that students take at least one course dedicated at a primary level to the study of diversity. English courses that satisfy the DIV requirement include:
The English major consists of 60 ENGL Credits, at least 30 of which must be completed in residence at the University of Washington. A maximum of 20 credits in 200-level courses may count toward the English major, and may be used to fulfill the distribution requirements.
The English major in language, literature, and culture is structured around three key perspectives:
The English major in Language, Literature, and Culture offers a highly adaptable course of study, grounding students in a range of methods, approaches, periods, and genres while providing the freedom to pursue their individual interests. Effective writing, analytical ability, research skills, and a broadened perspective on the world are among the practical accomplishments majors can expect to acquire, all of which can be applied to a range of careers.
The English major requires the completion of a minimum of 60 ENGL credits (the competitive-admission creative writing option requires a minimum of 60 ENGL credits). At least 30 credits of English applying toward the major must be earned in residence at the University of Washington. A maximum of 20 credits in 200-level courses, including required course work within the options, may count toward the English major. At least 15 credits must be in courses must be within the Historical Breadth requirement (these courses can overlap with any of the other major requirements with the exception of ENGL 202). Except for students completing the creative writing option, no more than 5 credits in creative writing may be applied toward the major.
The majority of English courses are distributed among three overlapping areas: Historical Depth, Power and Difference, and Genre, Method, and Language. All upper-division English courses fulfill at least one of these areas. However, the categories also overlap, allowing students to specialize in a particular area if they so choose. Descriptions of each area, along with the courses fulfilling it, are available below.
The undergraduate English major with language and literature emphasis offers students a broadly based, culturally contextualized introduction to the literatures of Britain, the United States, and, increasingly, Anglophone literature from around the world. Students majoring in English are exposed to a variety of critical perspectives, and have the opportunity to pursue interests in literary history, critical theory, language study, cultural studies, and creative writing. Good writing, analytical ability, research skills, and a broadened perspective on the world are among the practical accomplishments majors can expect to acquire, all of which can be applied to a range of careers .
These courses are not sequential : in other words, ENGL 131 is not a more advanced course than ENGL 111, and ENGL 199 is not more advanced than ENGL 131. While ENGL 297, 298, and 299 are called "Intermediate Writing," there is no pre-requisite — students do not need to take a 100-level writing course before enrolling in a 200-level writing link. Any student who enrolls in a lecture course is eligible to take its link, as space permits. Exceptions are ENGL 281 and ENGL 381: while there are no formal prerequisites for these courses, some writing background is assumed.
These courses concentrate on exploring the historical contexts of the development of English language and literature. Courses may include a range of approaches, including literary history as well as cultural studies. At times, courses may also take up a discussion of genre or theory, but historical context remains pivotal. The goal of these courses is to introduce the ways in which literature responds to and/or shapes historical conditions.
These courses spotlight study of the significant written or literary modes of English, including poetry, the short story, the novel, drama, film, and hypertexts. These genres of literature may be approached either as the subjects of critical study or as creative practices. Because they survey both older and emerging forms of written expression, some of the courses will undoubtedly undertake a consideration of the historical terms of a genre's appearance and evolution. Still, the chief purpose of these courses will be to introduce the workings and evolution of the various genres of literature.
These three overlapping areas of study help students understand how language, literature, and culture are always intertwined with the movement of history, bound up with questions of power and difference, and dynamically shaped by form, genre, and grammar. By giving students the tools to think critically and reflectively about these concepts, the major prepares them to be engaged readers, writers, and thinkers throughout their lives.
This lecture course offers an introduction to the English major at the University of Washington. Combining lecture with discussion sections, it is open to all students, but must be completed within one quarter of declaring the English major.
This small, writing-intensive course introduces students to literary theory and the practice of critical writing. It must be completed the quarter after ENGL 202.
To be able to compare and contrast what is distinct about different theoretical or methodological approaches
To be able to identify main concepts, premises/assumptions, and strengths/liabilities of a theoretical or methodological approach
To be eligible to declare the English major, you must:
To declare the English major, students should:
To engage theory and method as a focus of analysis and research
To examine and develop theoretical or methodological strategies for producing and circulating texts and implementing findings within salient academic and/or public conversations
To explore how social groups or identities emerge through or participate in the production, significance, and reception of theories and methods
To maintain satisfactory progress in the English major students must take ENGL 202 within one quarter of declaring the English major. Additionally, students must earn a 2.0 or higher in the course. If students do not earn a 2.0 or higher they must repeat the course to remain in the English major. This course can be repeated one time only.
To understand the historical and political contexts and stakes of different theoretical or methodological approaches
Transfer courses : any course designated on your UW transfer record as equivalent to one of the courses above.
Transfer courses are initially evaluated by the UW Admissions Office when you are accepted as a new transfer student. Admissions may assign a course you took elsewhere an equivalent UW course number, or may designate it as ENGL 1XX, 2XX, etc. They may or may not assign the "C" for English composition to your transfer course. If you transferred from a Washington State Community College , transfer courses have already been evaluated and equvalencies have been established. If you transferred from a four-year school, or an out-of-state school, and you feel that a course you took elsewhere should be designated as English composition ("C"), please contact English Advising . We will ask you to bring us a copy of your original transfer transcript and a syllabus or detailed course description so that we can evaluate your course and determine whether or not it can fulfill the UW's English composition requirement.
Transfer Interest Groups (TrIGs)
Twitter
Undergraduate
University Diversity Requirement
University Honors Program courses (usually open to UW Honors students only): HONORS 205 or 345
University of Washington
Upcoming Programs
User account menu
UW in the High School
Washington
While ENGL 111, 121, 131, and 182 have a strict no-overloads policy (no exceptions), you may be able to obtain instructor permission to overload into one of the other eligible classes (C LIT 240, ENGL 197, 198, 199, 297, 298, 299, 281, 381). It is unusual for instructors to overload writing classes, as overloads tend to compromise the learning experience for everyone, but it is not unheard of. You are welcome to attend class on the first day and ask the instructor about the possibility. Meanwhile, keep watching enrollment through MyUW - someone else may drop, opening up a spot for you.
Writing
Writing Minor
You are here
