Owner: uw-seattle-public-service-and-policy
Source: https://www.washington.edu/students/gencat/program/S/PublicPolicyandGovernance-770.html#program-UG-PSP-MAJOR
Title: 

[Supplemental official source] Public Service and Policy Major
[Supplemental official source] Resources for Current Evans Undergraduates
[Supplemental official source] UW Public Service and Policy major requirements
&copy; 2026 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
&copy; University of Washington | Seattle, WA
<input id="uw-search-bar" type="search"
140 Parrington Hall
2.00 in PUBPOL 201 Intro to Public Policy & Governance
20 credits of 300- or 400-level PUBPOL courses, or other courses approved by the Evans School of Public Policy and Governance
2025-2026 Courses
25 credits
45 college credits
45 college credits with a min 2.0 GPA
45 credits total
497 Undergraduate Intership Credit Application
69-70 credits
72 credits
A liberal arts degree from a professional school provides intellectual and practical skills like inquiry, analysis, communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving, all of which are valuable in today’s marketplace.
About
Accessibility
Additional Information
Additional Writing (W) (10 credits)
Admission Requirements
Advising Appointments
All students must make satisfactory academic progress in the major. Failure to do so results in major-level academic notification, major-level warning, and major-level alerts, which can lead to dismissal from the major and being precluded from subsequently declaring the major in a future quarter. For the complete continuation policy, contact the departmental adviser or refer to the department website.
All the UW
Alumni
And choose 5 credits:
Application & Practice - 5 credits
Application and Practice: PUBPOL 496
Areas of Inquiry
Areas of Inquiry (10 additional credits from any area)
Arts and Humanities (A&H) (10 credits)
As a major in one of the best schools in the nation and world, you’ll benefit from our impactful faculty and influential alumni.
Attend an Event
Attend an Information Session
Autumn 2025
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Public Service and Policy
Back to Top
Basic Skills
Be boundless
Become an Agent in Creating Change
Build skills in community engagement and diverse ways of knowing.
Campus Safety
Capstone (8 credits): PUBPOL 608
Career Development
Career Opportunities
Communicate among policy makers and implementers.
Community Engagement
Community Hub (Intranet)
Complete 15 credits from among 100- and 200-level approved courses representing areas that inform public service and policy.
Complete 15 credits from among 300- and 400-level PUBPOL courses or approved courses from a range of departments and schools.
Complete form by Fri, Apr 17, 2026 for AUT 2026 entry
Complete form by Fri, Jan 23, 2026 for SPR 2026 entry
Complete form by Fri, Jul 10, 2026 for AUT 2026 entry
Complete the online Declare the Major form and upload transcripts. While the form to declare the major is always available, invitations to join the major are made once per quarter following the third Friday. Students are notified two to three weeks following the third Friday.
Complete this form only after you have engaged with a faculty member and have developed a work plan.
Completion Requirements
Composition or writing, economics, political science, public policy, regional studies, sociology, statistics, and courses that cover the areas of inquiry.
Congressional Internships
Connect with Students
Connect with us:
Contact department for requirements.
Contact Us
Continuation Policy
Core coursework (36 credits): PUBPOL 511, PUBPOL 512, PUBPOL 513, PUBPOL 516, PUBPOL 517, PUBPOL 522, PUBPOL 526, PUBPOL 527, PUBPOL 528
Credential Overview
Cultivate a methodological toolkit that brings diverse evidence into public service and policymaking.
Current site
Declare the Major
Designed for local government professionals, this program runs from January through August with flexible course schedules. Over three quarters, students will take three core courses and complete a capstone experience.
Develop a knowledge base about public service and policy across and within policy domains.
Develop knowledge and skills about multiple forms of policy inquiry.
Directory
Diversity (DIV) (5 credits). Of Special Note: For students admitted to the University prior to autumn quarter 2023, the DIV requirement is 3 credits.
Doctor Of Philosophy (Public Policy and Management: Advanced Data Science)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Public Policy and Management: Data Science)
Electives (4 credits) : Course list maintained by department
Electives (4 credits): Any 500-level or above PUBPOL course
Employers &#038; Partners
Employment
Engage with Evans
English Composition (C) (5 credits; minimum 2.0 grade)
Enter search text
Entry to the major is for the quarter immediately following the quarter the Declare the Major form is submitted.
Equitably engage with diverse groups of stakeholders.
Evans Policy Innovation Collaborative (EPIC)
Evans School
Evans School News
Evans School of Public Policy and Governance
evansuw@uw.edu
Executive Master of Public Administration
Executive Master Of Public Administration (fee-based)
Expand communication, management, and leadership skills for public service impact.
Experiential Learning
Expertise
Facebook
Faculty & Staff
Faculty &#038; Research
Faculty Members
Faculty Website
For questions about the major and the Evans School, please email us at evansug@uw.edu .
For questions about the Major and the Evans School, please email us at evansug@uw.edu .
Foreign Language (1st year proficiency): 0-15 credits, depending on placement or high school background
Forms
Foster a contextual understanding of policy across institutional settings that transcend domains (local to international).
General Education Requirements
Giving
Graduate &#038; Professional Programs
Graduate Certificate in Building Resilient Local Governments (fee-based)
Graduate Certificate In International Development Policy And Management
Graduate Certificate In Leading Public Innovation
Graduate Certificate In Nonprofit Management
Graduate Certificates
Graduate Programs
Graduates of the Public Service and Policy major will have developed skills in policy systems analysis, communication, ethical decision-making, and leadership. By understanding the challenges and being well versed in the development of multiple, useful, and realistic solutions, graduates will contribute to the development of local, national, and global networks by making policy and implementing solutions.
Hire Evans
Home
Honors Options Available: See adviser for details
Host an Evans Intern
Information Sessions
Instagram
Instructional and Research Facilities: Evans School Policy Analysis and Research Group, Evans Policy Innovation Collaborative, Center on Risk and Inclusion in Food Systems, International Program in Public Health Leadership, William D. Ruckelshaus Center
Intentions to join the major are reviewed quarterly to confirm minimum requirements are met and to ensure the degree can be completed within the University’s satisfactory progress policies. Because of when courses are offered, it is not possible to expedite time to graduation, which typically takes 6 quarters.
Interdisciplinary Coursework
Interdisciplinary Selectives - 15 credits
Interdisciplinary Selectives (15 credits): 100-and 200-level courses representing areas that inform public service and policy. Refer to school website for list of approved courses.
International Program in Public Health Leadership (IPPHL)
Jobs
Leadership & Management - 10 credits
Leadership and Management (10 credits): PUBPOL 302, either PUBPOL 402 or PUBPOL 403
Learn more
Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: Students will be able to understand the context in which policy is created and implemented; cultivate a methodological toolkit that brings evidence into policy making; expand their communication, management, and leadership to be of public service; and apply knowledge and conceptual understanding to real-world problems and authentic situations.
Learning Outcomes
LinkedIn
Living in Seattle
Local and regional governments are essential to addressing the most pressing policy problems of our time. This eight-month program prepares leaders to build resiliency and overcome challenges unique to their local contexts.
Looking to speak with an Evans School advisor to plan your path to Majoring?
Major Requirements
Manage scarce/limited (human, financial, information) resources.
Master of Public Administration
Master Of Public Administration
Master Of Public Administration (fee-based)
Master Of Public Administration (Global Program)
Master Of Science (Public Policy And Management)
Menu
Methods (10 credits): PUBPOL 301 and PUBPOL 303
Minimum 15 credits taken in residence through the UW Seattle campus
Minimum 2.0 grade in PUBPOL 201. There is not an equivalent course for PUBPOL 201. Students who will transfer to the UW can indicate an intention to enroll in the program and be admitted with the provision that they complete PUBPOL 201 with a minimum of 2.0 grade in their first quarter.
Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA
Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for all courses applied to the minor
Minimum 20 credits of Areas of Inquiry requirements must be outside of major requirements
Minor in Public Policy
Mission &#038; Values
My UW
name="s"
Natural Sciences (NSc) (20 credits)
Newsletter
NextGen Civic Leader Corps
NextGen Summer Policy Academy
of Public Policy & Governance
Option-specific coursework (28 credits): See additional requirements section for option-specific coursework
Other Requirements
Our Leadership
Outcomes for the Public Service and Policy Major are organized around three learning areas
Parents
Ph.D. in Public Policy and Management
Pinterest
Prior to declaring the Public Service and Policy major, we suggest exploring any of the following first- and second-year courses: Composition or writing, economics, leadership, political science, public policy, regional studies, sociology, statistics, and courses that cover the areas of inquiry.
Privacy
Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Public Policy And Management)
Program of Study: Executive Master Of Public Administration
Program of Study: Graduate Certificate in Building Resilient Local Governments
Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Leading Public Innovation
Program of Study: Graduate Certificate In Nonprofit Management
Program of Study: International Development Policy And Management Certificate
Program of Study: Major: Public Service and Policy
Program of Study: Master Of Public Administration
Program of Study: Master Of Science (Public Policy And Management)
Program of Study: Minor: Public Policy
Program Overview
Public Policy and Governance
Public Policy Camp
Public Service and Policy Context (10 credits): PUBPOL 201, either PUBPOL 313 or PUBPOL 321
Public Service and Policy Foundation (35 credits):
Public Service and Policy is a minimum requirement major. All students complete the following to declare the major:
Public Service and Policy is an interdisciplinary major designed to bring students to a deeper understanding of their roles in public service and the creation and implementation of public policy. Learning is organized around three broad outcomes including understanding the context in which policy is created and implemented; cultivating a methodological toolkit that brings diverse evidence into public service and policymaking; and expanding communication, management, and leadership skills for public service impact. By understanding challenges and being well versed in the development of multiple, useful, and realistic solutions, graduates will contribute to the development of local, national, and global communities.
Public Service and Policy Major
Public Service and Policy Major - Evans School of Public Policy & Governance
Public Service Leadership Pathways
PUBPOL 201 (5 credits)
PUBPOL 201 Introduction to Public Policy and Governance (5)
PUBPOL 301 Truth, Evidence, and Public Policy Analytics (5)
PUBPOL 302 Public Service Leadership (5)
PUBPOL 303 Methods of Policy Inquiry (5)
PUBPOL 313 Evidence-Based Policy Implementation (5)
PUBPOL 321 Decision Making, Behavior, and Policy Design (5)
PUBPOL 350 Intro to Nonprofits and Philanthropy (5)
PUBPOL 390 Environmental Policy (5)
PUBPOL 391 Education and Workforce Policy (5)
PUBPOL 392 Health Equity & Policy (5)
PUBPOL 400 Public Policy and Governance Seminar (1)
PUBPOL 402 Ethics, Leadership, and Policy Implementation (5)
PUBPOL 402 Ethics, Leadership, Implementation (5)
PUBPOL 403 Leadership in Action (5)
PUBPOL 407 Negotiation Skills and Strategies for the Public Sector (5)
PUBPOL 480 Geographic Information Systems for Public Policy (5)
PUBPOL 481 Data Science, Economy, and Policy (5)
PUBPOL 496 Public Service & Policy Lab (5)
PubPol 497 Application
PUBPOL 497 Undergrad Internship (1-5)
PUBPOL 497 Undergraduate Internship (1-5, max 15) enhances students career readiness through guided self-reflection, peer dialogue, and employer feedback.
PubPol 498 Form
PUBPOL 498 Undergrad Research (1-5)
PUBPOL 498 Undergraduate Research Learning Contract Form
PUBPOL 499 Topics: Advocacy (5)
PUBPOL 499 Topics: Climate Change and Energy Policy (5)
PUBPOL 499 Topics: Development Management and Governance (5)
PUBPOL 499 Topics: Legislative Relations (5)
PUBPOL 499 Topics: Local Gov&#8217;t Management (5)
PUBPOL 499 Topics: Local Government Management (5)
PUBPOL 499 Topics: Natural Resource Policy (5)
PUBPOL 499 Topics: Natural Resources (5)
pubpoladv@uw.edu
Q SCI 381 Intro to Probability and Statistics (5)
QMETH 201 Intro to Statistical Methods (4)
Reasoning (RSN) (4 or 5 credits)
Recommended Preparation
Registering for PUBPOL 497 allows undergraduate students to engage in reflection with faculty guidance and receive credit for internship ex. See your adviser for questions on how this experience may fit within your degree, major, or minor requirements.
Required courses (11 credits): PUBPOL 549, 615, 616
Required courses (15 credits): PUBPOL 515, 558, 567, 617
Required courses (41 credits) : PA EX501, 502, 503, 504, 505, 506, 507, 508, 548, 549
Research Centers and Projects
Research News
Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Experiential learning is available through community-engaged learning courses, internships, research, and real-world problem-solving activities throughout policy lab. See adviser for details.
Resources for Current Evans Undergraduates
Resources for Current Evans Undergraduates - Evans School of Public Policy & Governance
Rules Docket
Schedule an Appointment
School Scholarships: See adviser for details
Search scope
Service to Service
Sign In
Skip to content
Social Sciences (SSc) (20 credits)
Spring 2026
STAT 220 Statistical Reasoning (5)
STAT 221 Statistical Concepts & Methods for SSc (5)
STAT 290 Advanced Placement (AP) Statistics (5)
STAT 311 Elements of Statistical Methods (5)
Statistics - 4 to 5 credits
Statistics (4-5 credits): one of QMETH 201, Q SCI 381, STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 290, or STAT 311
Student Consulting Lab
Student Experience
Student Organizations/Associations: Nextgen Civic Leader Corps, Evans Student Organization
Students
Students who want to learn more about our Major can sign up for Information Sessions.
Summer 2026
Terms
The Bachelor of Arts (BA) with a major in Public Service and Policy is an interdisciplinary program designed to bring students to a deeper understanding of their roles in public service, the creation and implementation of public policy, and civic health. Learning is organized around three broad outcomes including understanding the context in which policy is created and implemented; cultivating a methodological toolkit that brings diverse evidence into public service and policymaking; and expanding communication, management, and leadership skills for public service impact. By understanding challenges and being well versed in the development of multiple, useful, and realistic solutions, graduates will contribute to the development of local, national, and global communities.
The courses you’ll take cover a broad range of areas across campus, while in the public service and policy foundation courses, you’ll dig deep into policy context, methods, leadership, and application.
The Daniel J. Evans School of Public Policy and Governance educates current and future leaders and generates knowledge to co-create solutions to pressing societal problems. The Evans School's expertise can be seen in practice throughout government, nonprofit and philanthropic organizations, and the private sector. Our academic programs extend from an undergraduate minor and major, master's programs, graduate certificates, and a doctoral program, serving students across a wide spectrum of professional interests and at different stages in their educational and professional journeys.
The deadline to submit this Learning Contract Form is the first Friday of the quarter; however, submitting earlier is strongly recommended. No late applications will be accepted.
The Evans School MPA is interdisciplinary and defined by the practical application of theoretical knowledge to real-world challenges. Beyond a rigorous core curriculum and ample elective offerings, we support students through internships, capstone projects, engagement on campus and in the community to exercise new skills and learn the art of public leadership.
The Evans School&rsquo;s graduate certificate in Leading Public Innovation provides practical knowledge, frameworks, and tools to public service leaders committed to improving the equity, inclusiveness, effectiveness, and efficiency of systems that deliver public programs and services.
The major empowers students to become public service actors equipped to engage in the policymaking process.
The Public Policy minor, offered through the Evans School of Public Policy & Governance, introduces students to the field of public policy and frameworks for addressing public challenges. Students learn the scientific methods used to make evidence-based public decisions, design effective public policy in the context of human behavior, and implement sound public policy in a complex networked environment with competing stakeholder interests. Building upon skills developed in students&rsquo; majors and other coursework, this minor will develop students&rsquo; capacities to understand complex organizations, to gain leadership skills, and to broaden understanding of the role of the nonprofit and social sectors in achieving public goals.
The Public Service and Policy Major
The Public Service and Policy major is designed to bring you to a deeper understanding of your role in public service, the creation and implementation of policy, and civic health. This major is a liberal arts degree, which is valuable in today’s economy.
They will be equipped to address challenges and contribute to local, national, and global policy networks. Career paths include public service across various government levels, roles in not-for-profit organizations, and business positions utilizing their policy knowledge. Additionally, graduates will be academically prepared for further studies in law, public health, public policy, and social sciences.
This list includes the undergraduate courses offered during this academic year. While every effort is made to ensure this information is accurate and up to date, it is subject to change.
This program of study leads to the following credential:
This program of study leads to the following credentials:
Top-ranked in Public Affairs
Total credits: 15
Transfer applicants to the UW can declare an intention to join the major and be admitted provisionally to the major assuming they receive an offer from the UW.
Transfer applicants to the UW can declare an intention to join the major and be admitted with the provision they complete PUBPOL 201 with min 2.0 in their first quarter.
Tuition and Financial Aid
Twitter
Undergraduate Programs
Understand the context in which policy is created and implemented.
University of Washington
Upper-Division Electives - 15 credits
Upper-Division Electives (15 credits): 300-and 400-level PUBPOL courses or non-PUBPOL courses from a list of approved courses. Refer to school website for list. Maximum 5 credits combined of public service and policy related internship (PUBPOL 497), study abroad, and research (PUBPOL 498) coursework can count toward this requirement.
value="" autocomplete="off" placeholder="Search" />
Visit school website for instructions to declare the public service and policy major
We encourage you to learn more about the major by attending an information session and reading through this website.
Website
Why the Evans School?
Winter 2026
You’ll complete a policy lab, which is an opportunity to explore solutions to real-world issues in partnership with a professional client.
YouTube
