Owner: uw-seattle-informatics:pathway:begin-taking-major-electives-degree-option-classes-spring-of-junior-year
Source: https://ischool.uw.edu/academics/informatics/curriculum
Title: Informatics Curriculum | Information School | University of Washington

-->
[Supplemental official source] Academics
[Supplemental official source] Degree Planning
&copy; 2026 UW Information School
<!--
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TM46LWX"
12:00-11:59 PM
12:30-1:30 PM
2:00-3:30 PM
2026-03-10
206-685-9937
5:00-6:00 PM
9-month online graduate certificate program
About Us
Academics
Admissions
Advising & Support
AI Certificate Information Session & Q&A
AI for Organizations
All
Alumni
any two courses at the INFO 35x-level.
Apply to graduate in autumn of senior year
Apr 17
Apr 22
Apr 23
Attend iWelcome Week and Informatics New Student Orientation in September
Autumn
Azure Dev Tools
Begin applying for internships in autumn quarter (recommended)
Begin taking major electives/degree option classes spring of junior year
Biomedical and Health Informatics Option: BIME 300, BIME 435, INFO 468, INFO 478.
Bluesky
Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370
CALMA Round Table: Practical Perspectives on the Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Library, Archives, and Museum Careers
Canvas LMS
Capstone
Capstone (8-credits): Students complete a culminating experience.
Capstone Projects
Career Outcomes
Careers
Choose between CSE 123: Introduction to Computer Programming III (4 cr), CSE 143:
Close
Close menu
Committees
Community
Complete a summer internship (recommended)
Completing an option is not required. Students may declare a degree option at any time, but typically file the necessary change of major forms after their spring quarter, so that they are correctly listed in the system prior to applying for graduation the following autumn.
Contact Us
Core courses (54-58 credits)
Core topics of iSchool research
Course Schedules
Courses in the UW Informatics program: lower-division requirements, core classes and degree concentrations at the Information School.
Courses required for admission (15-20 credits)
Current Students
Current UW Students: Junior year course schedule example
Customize Your Experience
Data (INFO 33x, 43x courses). These courses teach foundational concepts and skills in how to represent, organize, store and retrieve data using technologies such as databases.
Data Science Option: INFO 370, INFO 371, INFO 430, INFO 474, or other approved data science elective
Data Science Option: INFO 370, INFO 371, INFO 430, INFO 474, or other data science electives.
Databases & Data Modeling (5 cr)
Declare your major option by spring of junior year (recommended)
Declaring an option
Degree Planning
Design (INFO 36x, 46x courses). These courses teach creative design skills, helping students imagine how information might be used to address problems, opportunities and injustices in the world.
Designing Information Experiences: Students learn how to envision and create new information technologies.
Developing Information Technology: Students learn how to build and maintain computing and information technologies. This includes foundational topics in computer science.
Development (INFO 34x, 44x courses). These courses teach foundational skills in processing and provisioning data through software, including web and app development.
Directory
Diversity
Doctorate Program
Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes
Electives (12-15 credits)
Emergency Info
Employers & Partners
Enter search text
Events
Every gift makes a difference to students
Everyone
Experiential Learning
Exploring Informatics: Students take foundational skills to understand the domain of Informatics.
Facebook
Faculty & Staff
Faculty Affairs
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Find help from our team of student advisors
Find iSchool faculty, staff and students
Focus Areas
Foundations (INFO 20x, 30x, 40x courses). These courses teach the foundations of data, information and knowledge, helping students understand what information is, and how we create and use it in our lives, organizations and communities.
Full Results
Future Students
Graduation
Grants & Awards
Growing up in a small town in Eastern Washington, Diego Licea aspired to attend college and set his sights on the University of Washington.“I'd heard it was a challenging school to get into,” he said. “If it wasn't UW, I felt like...
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Highlights
How our research drives progress and helps people
How to collaborate with faculty and students
Hubs for innovative scholarship & research
Husky Giving Day
I am the iSchool
I Am the iSchool
Indigenous data has a history of bad management from non-Natives, says UW Information School Assistant Professor Sandy Littletree (Eastern Shoshone/Navajo). Library collections may include sacred songs, ceremonies and stories that were...
INFO 200: Intellectual Foundations of Informatics
INFO 201
INFO 201: Foundational Skills for Data Science
INFO 290: Orientation to Informatics
INFO 300
INFO 300: Research Methods
INFO 330
INFO 330: Databases and Data Modeling
INFO 340: Client-Side Development
INFO 351
INFO 360: Design Methods
INFO 380: Product and Information Systems Management
INFO 490: Project Capstone I and INFO 491: Project Capstone II (8 credits total)
Informatics
Informatics Academics
Informatics courses can also be understood as informing a variety of focus areas, which are lenses that frame different considerations of information in the curriculum. For example, Informatics offers courses in data science (INFO 37x/47x), cybersecurity (INFO 31x/41x), and search and retrieval (INFO 32x/42x). Most Informatics courses can be labeled as drawing on one or more focus areas; students can use these focus areas to help plan their core classes and electives. See the full list of focus areas for details.
Informatics Curriculum
Informatics Curriculum | Information School | University of Washington
Informatics major requirements
Informatics Minor
Informatics student blends history, technology and service
Information
Information and Organizations: Students learn to analyze the impacts and use of information technologies within organizations.
Information and Society (8-10 credits): Students learn to analyze the impacts of information technologies on individuals and society as a whole.
Information Ethics & Policy (5 cr)
Instagram
iSchool Intranet
iSchools.org
IT / Help Desk
Jasper Maynard Zhang : Jasper Maynard Zhang, Informatics: "I am interested in how technology and data science can be used to address causes I care about." Read more.
Jobs
Jump to Footer Navigation
Jump to Main Content
Jump to Page Navigation
Jump to Top Navigation
Knowledge Base
Law Librarianship
LinkedIn
Loading Results... Loading search results, please wait.
Logo & Brand Guidelines
Make a Gift
Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty
Master of Arts
Master of Library and Information Science
Master of Science in Information Management
Meet some of our students and alumni
Menu
MLIS
MSIM
Museology
MyUW
News
News & Events
Office 365
Once students have been admitted to the major, they typically follow the steps below to complete their degree:
one course from CSE 123: Introduction to Computer Programming III, CSE 143: Computer Programming II, or CSE 163: Intermediate Data Programming
one course from CSE 373: Data Structures and Algorithms (4 credits), INFO 442: Cooperative Software Development (5 credits), or INFO 443: Software Architecture (5 credits)
One course in computer programming; see the list of accepted courses
One course in statistics; see the list of accepted courses
One course in the social sciences (SSc) area of inquiry ; must be another course that is not INFO 200
Open Scholarship Commons, Suzzallo Library
Organizations (INFO 38x, 48x course). These courses teach key perspectives on how information is used in organizations such as businesses, communities and governments, ensuring that students’ perspectives go beyond the individual.
Outlook on the web
People
Ph.D.
Pick Your Path Through MSIM
Podcast
Privacy Policy
Professional & Cont. Ed.
Professor&#039;s work helps to advance Indigenous librarianship
Programs
Qualtrics
Read more
Recent funding for iSchool research projects
Registration
Related programs & non-degree options
Request Information
Request more information
Research
Research Areas
Research Groups
Research Impact
Research Methods in Informatics (5 credits)
Resources:
Sample course plans
Scholarships & Funding
Search
Search:
Seattle , WA 98195-2840
See Full Directory
See Full Results
See the prerequisites page for details.
Sign up for graduation ceremonies (iSchool Convocation and UW Commencement) and order graduation materials
Site Login
Society (INFO 35x, 45x courses). These courses teach core concepts in data and information ethics, policy, and society, giving students perspectives on how information is used in our society.
Special Topics & New Courses
Specialized MLIS for those with a JD
Spring
Standard Grading Scale
Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni
Steps to completing your degree
Students may also declare a degree option in either Data Science or Biomedical and Health Informatics to have that phrase added to their transcript. Completing an option requires taking four electives from within that option’s focus area:
Students take a range of Informatics electives (other upper-division INFO courses). Courses outside of INFO can also count as electives; please reach out to informatics@uw.edu for more information. Students may also complete a degree option in either Data Science or Biomedical and Health Informatics by choosing electives in the Data Science or Health & Well-Being focus areas respectively. Completing either option requires 4 electives:
Students work with organizations to solve information problems
Study Abroad
Studying Information: Students learn how to analyze and research information technologies.
Support the iSchool
Take junior-level core courses: CSE 123, 143 or CSE 163; choose one of CSE 373, INFO 442 or INFO 443; INFO 300; INFO 330; INFO 340; INFO 360; INFO 380; and two INFO 35x courses
Take the Capstone course sequence: INFO 490 & INFO 491 and present at spring Capstone event. Alternatively, you can complete a research Capstone. See the Informatics Capstone page for details.
Technical Foundations of Informatics (5 cr)
Terms & Conditions
The curriculum plans below can be used to help you plan the remainder of your time in the major. The course schedule reflected on this page is typical of the path students will follow to complete their degree, but individuals may choose to pursue their own path to degree completion.
The Informatics curriculum includes six core areas:
The Informatics major includes a core that spans the breadth of the curriculum, allowing students to learn to study, design, and develop information technology for the good of people, organizations and society. Each course provides a foundation that students use in their Capstone projects. Students further their expertise in a broad range of electives taught by iSchool faculty and invited guest faculty from industry, government and nonprofits around the Puget Sound area.
The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work
The latest news from our faculty and research staff
The latest stories from our community
The School
To earn a Bachelor of Science in Informatics, students must complete the following major requirements (effective Autumn 2023; see previous requirements ):
toolkit
Toolkit
Tools
Tuesday, April 14, 2026
Undergraduate major and minor
United States of America
University of Washington
University of Washington Information School
Upcoming Info Sessions
Updates
UW Academic Calendar
UW Time Schedule
Videos: Alumni at Work
Watch : A breakdown of the courses you need to take to complete the Informatics major and a bachelor's degree at the University of Washington.
Watermark
We are committed to building an inclusive community
Wednesday, April 8, 2026
What's happening on campus and beyond
Winter
Workday
Youtube
Zoom / Online
