Owner: uw-seattle-swedish
Source: https://scandinavian.washington.edu/ba-swedish
Title: B.A. in Swedish | Department of Scandinavian Studies | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Scandinavian Area Studies
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
318 Raitt hall
60 credits of which 25 are on the 300 level or above (As of Autumn, 2022).
60 credits of which 25 are on the 300 level or above + 5 cr Capstone (As of Autumn, 2022).
About
Adjunct & Affiliate Faculty
Admissions
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Advising
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
Alumni Update
Annual Report
As part of the degree, students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in a Scandinavian or Baltic language such as Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish, Estonian, Latvian, or Lithuanian. Because most language 101 courses are available only in the fall, students should sign up for one of these classes as early as possible. If you have previous experience studying one of these languages, schedule a placement test by emailing uwscand@uw.edu .
B.A. in Scandinavian Area Studies
B.A. in Swedish
B.A. in Swedish | Department of Scandinavian Studies | University of Washington
Baltic Studies Program
Box 353420
Capstone Project
Careers
College of Arts & Sciences
Contact Us
Courses
Credits earned during studies in Sweden can be transferred in consultation with the Foreign Study Office and the Scandinavian Department.
Crossing North Podcast
Danish
Department Faculty
Department of Scandinavian Studies
Destinations
Directories
Dissertations
Diversity and Equity
Each of our majors has an option to pursue departmental honors . Students who are interested should meet with the undergraduate adviser to learn more about the requirements.
Emergency Resources
Estonian
Events Calendar
Facebook
Faculty
Faculty News
FAQ
Featured Courses
Fields of Interest
Finnish
First Year Swedish 1 (SWED 101) is available only in the fall quarter. Because the core of the Swedish major is building advanced linguistic skills over the course of three years, students should sign up for this class as early as possible. If you have previous experience studying Swedish, schedule a placement test by emailing uwscand@uw.edu .
First- and second-year courses in Swedish (30 credits)
First- and second-year courses in target language (Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, Swedish) (30 credits)
Frequently Asked Questions
Graduate
Graduate Students
History
Home
Icelandic
Instagram
Latvian
Lithuanian
M.A. Degree
Mailing List
Main menu
Main Office Hours: Mon., Wed., Fri. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Tu., Thu. 1 to 5 p.m. Please email uwscand@uw.edu any time.
Major Requirements
Majors
Make a Gift
Maps
Menu
Minors
Mission & Characteristics
More ways to connect
MyUW
New Directions Series
News & Events
Newsletter
Non-Degree Study
Norwegian
Organizations & Links
Other courses may be substituted per discussion with the Undergraduate Adviser.
Our Grads
Our Programs
People
Ph.D. Degree
Phone: (206) 543-0645
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Research
Resources
Resources & Opportunities
SCAND 312 Masterpieces of Scandinavian Literature
SCAND 315 Scandinavian Crime Fiction
SCAND 316 Child and School in Scandinavia
SCAND 327 Women in Scandinavian Society
SCAND 330 Scandinavian Mythology
SCAND 331 Folk Narrative
SCAND 334 Immigrant and Ethnic Folklore
SCAND 335 Scandinavian Children's Literature
SCAND 340 Kalevala and the Epic Tradition
SCAND 341 Sami Culture and History
SCAND 344 The Baltic States and Scandinavia
SCAND 345 Baltic Cultures
SCAND 360 Scandinavian Cinema
SCAND 361 Danish Cinema
SCAND 365 Finnish Popular Culture
SCAND 367 Sexuality in Scandinavia: Myth and Reality
SCAND 370 The Vikings
SCAND 380 History of Scandinavia to 1720
SCAND 381 History of Scandinavia Since 1720
SCAND 399 Foreign Study in Scandinavia
SCAND 402 International Political Economy and Scandinavia
SCAND 427 Scandinavian Women Writers in English Translation
SCAND 430 Readings in Folklore
SCAND 431 The Northern European Ballad
SCAND 445 War and Occupation in Northern Europe: History, Fiction, and Memoir
SCAND 450 Scandinavian Literary History
SCAND 454 Baltic History
SCAND 455 Baltic Politics and Society Today
SCAND 460 History of the Scandinavian Languages
SCAND 465 Translation Workshop in Nordic and Baltic Languages
SCAND 470 Scandinavian Auteurs
SCAND 480 Kierkegaard and Decadence in European Literature
SCAND 481 August Strindberg and European Cultural History
SCAND 482 Knut Hamsun and Early European Modernism
SCAND 490 Special Topics
SCAND 495 Foreign Study: Research Project
SCAND 498 Senior Capstone Project(5 credits)
SCAND 499 Independent Study or Research
Scandinavian Area Studies
Scholarships
Scholarships & Stipends
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-3420
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Employees
Students who earn a B.A. in Scandinavian Area Studies develop a new, enhanced understanding of the world through studying the culture, politics, and history of Scandinavia. The program provides diverse options for students to learn, including small, seminar-style classes; interdisciplinary study abroad opportunities ; and exceptional programs to connect to Scandinavian and Baltic communities on or near campus. Students develop strong linguistic, research, and communication skills in a welcoming, inclusive academic environment. Prepared with knowledge from world leaders in welfare, business, and gender equity, graduates pursue careers in business and nonprofit work, law, academia, and STEM industries across the globe.
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Summer Study
Support Scandinavian Studies
Support Us
SWED 300 Swedish Women Writers
SWED 301 Topics in Swedish Literature and Culture
SWED 302 The Swedish Novel
SWED 352 Strindberg and His Works
SWED 395 Foreign Study: Swedish Area Studies
SWED 399 Foreign Study: Topics in Swedish Literature and Culture
SWED 490 Supervised Reading
Swedish
Terms
Through earning a BA in Swedish, students connect to a culture of influential artists, renowned designers and innovative problem-solvers. Students build advanced linguistic skills through a three-year program in language and literature. These skills, combined with cultural surveys of Sweden, Scandinavia, and the Baltics; specialized courses on literature and culture; and diverse study abroad opportunities, open the door to new insights and opportunities. Prepared with knowledge from world leaders in welfare, business, and gender equity, graduates pursue careers in business and nonprofit work, law, academia, and STEM industries across the globe.
Undergraduate
University of Washington
Upcoming Courses
Upper-division courses in Swedish from list of approved courses. (10 credits)
Upper-division SCAND courses from list of approved courses. (15 credits)
Upper-division SCAND courses from list of approved courses. (25 credits)
User account menu
UW-Bergen Faculty Exchange
uwscand@uw.edu
Visiting Scholar Application
Washington
Welcome
You are here
