Owner: uw-seattle-korean
Source: https://asian.washington.edu/ba-korean
Title: B.A. in Korean | Asian Languages & Literature | University of Washington

B.A. in Korean | Asian Languages & Literature | University of Washington
Skip to main content
Washington
University of Washington
College of Arts & Sciences
Quick links
Quick Links
Directories
Maps
MyUW
User account menu
Search
Search
Give now
Main menu
Asian Languages & Literature
Menu
People
Faculty
Staff
Teaching Assistants
Graduate Students
Current Grad Students
GSA Officers
Department Service Assignments
Alumni
Alumni News
Submit an Update
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
Majors & Minors
Incoming Freshmen & Current Students
Transfer Students
Scholarships
Careers
Resources & Opportunities
Graduate
Programs
Admissions
Policies and Procedures
M.A. Guidelines
Ph.D. Guidelines
Teaching Assistant Opportunities
Summer Study
Language Study
Languages Offered
Proficiency & Placement
Add Codes & Wait Lists
Teaching Endorsements
Courses
Upcoming Courses
Featured Courses
Study Abroad
Before You Go
Transferring Credits
Destinations
Research
Early Buddhist Manuscript Project
Bilingual and Biliteracy Research Lab
Welcome
People
Publications
Dissertations
Fields of Interest
News & Events
Recent News
Email List
Asia Notes Newsletter
Markus Memorial Lecture
Washin Kai
Calendar
Resources
Advising
Voicing Concerns
Health & Wellness
Financial Support
Careers
For Graduate Students
For Teaching Assistants
For Faculty and Staff
About
History
Equity, Justice, & Inclusion
Mission & Vision
Awards & Honors
Stay Connected
Support Us
Contact Us
Directories
Maps
MyUW
You are here
Home
B.A. in Korean
A B.A. in Korean is a gateway for students to engage with a culture whose art, music, and technological innovations shape lives around the globe. Students learn to read, write, and converse in Korean through careful and extensive study of Korean literature, popular culture, and linguistics. Distinctive coursework in the major is taught by professors who are leading researchers in their fields. Beyond the classroom, students benefit from language-intensive study abroad opportunities, academic resources such as the East Asia Library , and co-curricular options including a Korean singing and reading club. Alumni, as multilingual professionals with in-demand skills, find an advantage entering business and nonprofit work, STEM fields, graduate programs, and more across the globe.
Introductory Korean language courses are available in the fall or summer quarters. Students should sign up for introductory courses as early as possible in order to fulfill the major’s language requirement. If you have previous experience with Korean, see the department's information on proficiency exams and placement interviews .
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Degree Requirements
NOTE: The below requirements apply to students who declare the Korean major in Winter Quarter 2019 or later. The previous requirements will still apply to those who declared the Korean major before Winter Quarter 2019 unless special provision is made. Please contact a departmental advisor if you are interested in this option.
The Korean Language & Literature major has a requirement of 50-75 credits . The actual number of credits required depends on the level of Korean language attained upon entering the University of Washington.
I. Language Courses:
15-45 credits , with a minimum of 15 credits beyond the second year, drawn from the following courses:
KOREAN 101, 102, 103 First-Year Korean
KOREAN 201, 202, 203 Second-Year Korean
KOREAN 301, 302, 303 Third-Year Korean
KOREAN 415, 416, 417 Readings in Korean Literature and Culture
II. Area-Related Humanities & Social Science Courses:
30-35 credits. Suggested courses include:
KOREAN 304 Practical Korean Through Korean Dramas
KOREAN 360 Topics in Korean Literature and Culture
KOREAN 365 Korean Pop Culture
KOREAN 435 Seminar in Modern Korean Literature and Culture
KOREAN 440 Introduction to Korean Linguistics
KOREAN 442 Special Topics in Korean Language and Culture
KOREAN 415 Readings in Korean Literature and Culture, 5 credits
KOREAN 416 Readings in Korean Literature and Culture, 5 credits
KOREAN 417 Readings in Korean Literature and Culture, 5 credits
ASIAN 207 Special Topics in the Literature & Culture of Asia (when Korea is the topic)
ASIAN 263 Great Works of Asian Literature (when Korea is the topic)
ASIAN 498 Special Topics (when Korea is topic)
ASIAN 401 Introduction to Asian Linguistics
ASIAN 404 Writing Systems, 3 credits
ANTH 448 Modern Korean Society
HSTAS 212 History of Korean Civilization
HSTAS 481 History of Traditional Korea: Earliest Times to the Nineteenth Century
HSTAS 482 History of Modern Korea: 1860 to the Present
JSIS 484 Special Topics (when Korea is topic)
JSIS A 212 History of Korean Civilization
JSIS A 213 The Korean Peninsula and World Politics
JSIS A 439 Politics of Divided Korea
JSIS A 448 Modern Korean Society
JSIS A 466 Comparative Politics and Korea Studies
POL S 213 The Korean Peninsula and World Politics
POL S 403 Advanced Seminar in International Relations (when the topic is Korea)
POL S 439 Politics of Divided Korea
POL S 480 Comparative Politics and Korea Studies
LING 400 Survey of Linguistic Method and Theory
Students who only have 15 credits of language must take 35 credits from Area-Related Humanities & Social Science Courses requirement, for a total of 50 credits towards the major. If you have questions about whether or not a different out-of-department class counts towards the Korean major, please contact an advisor .
Courses taken to satisfy the language requirement may not be used simultaneously to satisfy the area-related humanities and social sciences requirement of the major.
Updated: Summer 2019
Share
Korean
B.A. in Korean
Minor in Korean
Add Codes & Wait Lists
KOREAN Courses
Graduate Certificate in Second/Foreign Language Teaching
Language Programs
Chinese
Hindi
Indonesian
Japanese
Khmer
Korean
Pali and the Prakrits
Sanskrit
Urdu
Vietnamese
Support Asian Languages & Literature
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Newsletter
More ways to connect
Department of Asian Languages & Literature
University of Washington
225 Gowen Hall
Box 353521
Seattle, WA 98195-3521
Phone: (206) 543-4996
asianll@uw.edu
Privacy
Terms
Site Map
Alumni Update
Contact Us
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
