Owner: uw-seattle-music-b-a:pathway:music-voice-option
Source: https://music.washington.edu/bachelor-arts-music-instrumental-option
Title: Bachelor of Arts - Music, Instrumental Option | School of Music | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Music, Music History Option
[Supplemental official source] Music, Music Theory Option
[Supplemental official source] Music, Voice Option
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
* Early Music Majors are strongly encouraged to take 10 credits in pre-1700 literature, art history, and history courses when fulfilling their VLPA requirements.
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
A&H - Arts and Humanities = 20 cr.; SSc - Social Sciences = 20 cr.; NSc - Natural Sciences= 20 cr.
A&H* - Arts and Humanities = 20 cr.; SSc - Social Sciences = 20 cr.; NSc - Natural Sciences= 20 cr.
About
Additional Music Requirements
Admissions & Auditions
Advising
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
Alumni Update
Approved 400-level Music History electives (see list of course options) (12 credits)
Approved upper-level Music Theory electives to be selected from MUSIC 472, 485, 487, and/or 489 (6 credits)
Approved upper-level Music Theory or History electives (see list of course options) (3, 3) (6 credits)
Approved upper-level Music Theory or History electives (see list of course options) (6 credits)
Archives & Collections
Areas of Inquiry - 75 credits total (of which 15 cr. of major dept. prefix can count but not toward 90 non-Music)
Areas of Study
At least 3 credits from among: MUSIC 250, MUSIC 251, MUSIC 252, or any 400-level Ethnomusicology course
Auditions
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts - Instrumental Option Degree Program Sheet (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts - Music History Option Degree Program Sheet (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts - Music Theory Option Degree Program Sheet (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Instrumental Option
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Instrumental Option | School of Music | University of Washington
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Music History Option
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Music History Option | School of Music | University of Washington
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Music Theory Option
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Music Theory Option | School of Music | University of Washington
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Voice Option
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Voice Option | School of Music | University of Washington
Bachelor of Arts - Sample Course Sequence (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts - Voice Option Degree Program Sheet (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts Theory - Sample Course Sequence (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts Voice - Sample Course Sequence (PDF)
Bachelor of Music
Bands
Box 353450
By Area of Study
By Last Name
Centers & Labs
Chamber Music
Choral Music Library
College of Arts & Sciences
Composition
Concert & Event Production
Conducting
Contact Us
Course Offerings
Courses
Current Projects
Current Season
Directories
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
Doctor of Musical Arts
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.)
DXArts
Early Music & Baroque
Email Communications
Ensemble Requirements
Ensembles
Ethnomusicology
Events Calendar
Facebook
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & Staff Resources
Fields of Interest
Foreign Language Requirements
Frequently Asked Questions
Give now
Graduate Admissions
Graduate Degrees
Graduate Students
Hire a Musician
History
Home
Instagram
Instrumental Performance
Internships & Careers
Jazz
Jazz and Improvised Music
John Blacking: Venda Music
Language Skills = 5 cr. English Composition; 5 cr. Foreign Language (third quarter)
LinkedIn
Mailing Lists
Main menu
Make a Gift
Maps
Master of Arts
Master of Music
Menu
Modern & Contemporary
MUSIC 113: Beginning Ear Training ( Autumn ) (1 credit)
MUSIC 119: Theory ( Autumn ) (3 credits)
MUSIC 120: Survey of Music History ( Aut/Win/Spr ) (5 credits) or proficiency exam
MUSIC 201, 202: First-Year Theory I, II ( Winter, Spring ) (3,3) (6 credits)
MUSIC 203, 301, 302: First-Year Theory III & Second-Year Theory I, II ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (3,3,3) (9 credits)
MUSIC 204, 205: First-Year Ear Training I, II ( Winter, Spring ) (1,1) (2 credits)
MUSIC 206, 304, 305: First-Year Ear Training III & Second Year-Ear Training I, II ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (1,1,1) (3 credits)
MUSIC 210, 211, 212: Music History I, II, III ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (3,3,3) (9 credits)
MUSIC 303: Second-Year Theory III ( Autumn ) (3 credits)
MUSIC 306: Second-Year Ear Training III ( Autumn ) (1 credit)
MUSIC 307, 308, 309: Diction for Singers (2, 2, 2) (6 credits)
MUSIC 470: Analysis of Tonal Music: Introduction to Schenker (3 credits)
MUSIC 471: Introduction to Atonal Theory and Analysis (3 credits)
Music Building
Music Education
Music History
Music Library
Music Minor
Music Theory & History Core
Music, Instrumental Option
Music, Music History Option
Music, Music Theory Option
Music, Voice Option
Musical Instrument Collection
MUSICP 320 Voice Lessons (18 credits)
MUSICP 320-363: Vocal or Instrumental instruction (2, 2, 2, 2, 2) (10 credits)
MUSICP 321-339: Instrumental instruction (2-3 years) (18 credits)
musinfo@uw.edu
Must include six quarters in a large conducted choral ensemble; MUSEN 350 (University Chorale), MUSEN 351 (Chamber Singers) or MUSEN 307 (Recital Choir).
MyUW
News
News Archive
Newsletter
Non-Majors, Access, & Public Learning
Non-Music Coursework
Orchestras
Other Ensembles
Participation in at least one School of Music ensemble is required during every quarter of applied music instruction. (5 credits)
Participation in at least one School of Music ensemble is required during every quarter of applied music instruction. (6 credits)
Participation in at least one School of Music ensemble is required during every quarter of applied music instruction. (9 credits)
Past Seasons
People
Percussion
Performances & Events
Phone: (206) 543-1201
Piano : Three quarters of Accompanying (MUSEN 325), and at least 1 credit of choral ensemble is required druing every quarter of applied instruction.
Piano : Three quarters of Accompanying (MUSEN 325), and at least 1 credit of choral ensemble is required during every quarter of applied instruction.
Piano Proficiency
Piano Profienciency
Pre-Core
Print Mailings
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Publications & Recordings
Quick links
Quick Links
Reasoning and Writing in Context = 5 cr. Reasoning; 10 cr. Writing course
Recent News
Registration Policies
Research
Resources
Room Reservations & Event Production
Room Reservations & Recital Scheduling
Scholarships & Financial Aid
School of Music
Search
Seattle, WA 98195
Secondary Piano
See the Degree Program Sheet below for a checklist of course requirements.
See the Sample Course Sequence Sheet below for one possible degree course plan.
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Staff
Stay Connected
Strings : University Symphony Orchestra (MUSEN 300) is required druing every quarter of applied instruction.
Strings : University Symphony Orchestra (MUSEN 300) is required during every quarter of applied instruction.
Student Advisory Council
Student Work
Students must satisfy a piano proficiency requirement equivalent to passing MUSAP 135.
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Summer Study
Support Music
Support Us
Terms
The University of Washington acknowledges the Coast Salish peoples of this land, the land which touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations.
Theory Certificate
This degree is offered with a major in Music, and is intended for students who wish to emphasize general competence in music within the framework of a liberal arts education. Students must complete a minimum of 180 credits, of which 90 must be taken in departments other than the School of Music, including the Language Skills , Reasoning and Writing in Context , and Areas of Inquiry requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences (see below). Music majors are required to earn a minimum grade of 2.0 in each music course (core and elective) that is to count toward music degree requirements and an overall 3.0 average in all MUHST courses. A GPA of 2.5 in music is required for graduation.
This degree is offered with a major in Music, and is intended for students who wish to emphasize general competence in music within the framework of a liberal arts education. Students must complete a minimum of 180 credits, of which 90 must be taken in departments other than the School of Music, including the Language Skills , Reasoning and Writing in Context , and Areas of Inquiry requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences (see below). Music majors are required to earn a minimum grade of 2.0 in each music course (core and elective) that is to count toward music degree requirements. A GPA of 2.5 in music is required for graduation.
This degree is offered with a major in Music, and is intended for students who wish to emphasize general competence in music within the framework of a liberal arts education. Students must complete a minimum of 180 credits, of which 90 must be taken in departments other than the School of Music, including the Language Skills , Reasoning and Writing in Context , and Areas of Inquiry requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences. Music majors are required to earn a minimum grade of 2.0 in each music course (core and elective) that is to count toward music degree requirements. A GPA of 2.5 in music is required for graduation.
This degree is offered with a major in Music, and is intended for students who wish to emphasize general competence in music within the framework of a liberal arts education. Students must complete a minimum of 180 credits, of which 90 must be taken in departments other than the School of Music, including the Language Skills, Reasoning and Writing in Context , and Areas of Inquiry requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences. Music majors are required to earn a minimum grade of 2.0 in each music course (core and elective) that is to count toward music degree requirements. A GPA of 2.5 in music is required for graduation.
Ticketing
TOTAL CORE CREDITS: 36
TOTAL MAJOR CREDITS: 66
TOTAL MAJOR CREDITS: 69
TOTAL MAJOR CREDITS: 72
TOTAL NON-MUSIC CREDITS: 90
Undergraduate Admissions
Undergraduate Degrees
University of Washington
Upper Level Electives
User account menu
Venues & Parking
Vi Hilbert Archive
Vocal
Vocal Performance
Voice students must complete first-year language courses (through 103) in TWO languages (French, German, and/or Italian). These may also satisfy the UW foreign language requirement and count toward VLPA credits.
Washington
World Music Core Courses
You are here
YouTube
