Owner: uw-seattle-disability-studies:pathway:you-have-the-option-to-complete-a-5-credit
Source: https://disabilitystudies.washington.edu/DS_major
Title: Disability Studies Major (Individualized Studies) | Disability Studies - UW College of Arts and Sciences

[Supplemental official source] Complete Guidelines for the Thesis Project
<nav
2.0 UW GPA
35 credits must be upper division.
A final independent study project/paper on a topic of interest to you within the field of disability studies, and a presentation or other public engagement component. This represents the culmination of your studies in the major. You must take a minimum of 5 credits and may take a maximum of 15 credits.
A refined version of your earlier draft from the project interest form.
A successful Thesis Project should:
After your advisor has been assigned, Disability Studies Advisors will send you the INDIV 493 Proposal form and you will complete it by adding the following:
Any course not on the approved lists must be approved by the Disability Studies adviser. Please fill out the Disability Studies Course Petition Form for further review by an adviser. Please note, 100- and 200-level classes will not be approved.
aria-label="Main Navigation"
At least one course from each of two or more Subfields in the Electives list (20-30 credits to 55 total)
Attend regular meetings to discuss progress with the faculty advisor
BOTH of the following (10-20 credits)
Breadcrumb
Complete Guidelines for the Thesis Project .
Complete or revise a research proposal: topic, research questions, methods, outcomes
Complete the final research paper or creative expression in other media
Completed DIS ST/LSJ/CHID 230: Introduction to Disability Studies with a minimum grade of 2.0
Contact Us
Core Courses
Courses/Programs
DIS ST 235 / SOC 235 Representations of Disability in Popular Culture
DIS ST 300 Disability Studies in Education
DIS ST 332 / LSJ 332 / CHID 332 Disability and Society
DIS ST 335 / GWSS 335 / CHID 335 Sex, Gender, and Disability
DIS ST 337 / SOC 337 Social Construction of Madness and Mental Health in the US
DIS ST 346 / LSJ 346 / JSIS B 346 Disability in Global and Comparative Perspectives
DIS ST 360 Redesigning Humanity: Disability in Speculative Fiction
DIS ST 384 Topics in Disability Rights and Inequalities
DIS ST 402 / HSTCMP 402 Topics in Disability History
DIS ST 419 / CHID 419 Disability and the Arts
DIS ST 421 / B H 421 History of Eugenics
DIS ST 430 / LSJ 430 / CHID 430 Topics in Disability Studies
DIS ST 433 / LSJ 433 / CHID 433 Disability Law, Policy, and the Community
DIS ST 434 / LSJ 434 / CHID 434 Civil and Human Rights Law for Disabled People
DIS ST/LSJ/CHID 230 (5): Introduction to Disability Studies (5 credits)
Disability Studies
Disability Studies is a minimum admission major, accepting applications at any time.
Disability Studies Major (Individualized Studies)
Diversity, Representation, & Identity
Diversity, Representation, & Identity (5 credits)
Diversity, Representation, and Identity
Draw upon sound research methods,
Electives
Electives Courses List
Eligibility Requirements
Example Syllabus: Tasks and Activities
Expectations
Faculty advisors are expected to guide you in defining your topic, questions, and methods, provide feedback on the your progress, make referrals to appropriate resources, and comment frequently on your written work throughout the quarter.
FAQ
Focus on a specific topic,
For Departmental Honors, identify ideas for the additional ad hoc honors work to be done for the Thesis Project.
Frame a significant question or set of questions,
Global & Historical Perspectives
Global & Historical Perspectives (5 credits)
Global and Historical Perspectives
Home
id="main-menu__mobile"
If you choose a 10-credit Thesis Project you will take 2 quarters: 5 credits INDIV 493 and 5 credits DIS ST 499
If you choose a 15-credit Thesis Project you will take 3 quarters: 5 credits INDIV 493 and 10 credits DIS ST 499 [may enroll during Junior year]
If you choose a 5-credit Thesis Project you will take 1 quarter: 5 credits INDIV 493
Integrate knowledge using rigorous interdisciplinary inquiry, and
List 2-3 faculty members with related research interests who you might be interested in serving as your Faculty Advisor.​
Lists of Approved Courses
Major Requirements
Minimum of 45 credits earned
Minimum of 55 credits to complete the major.
Note : Students may enroll in DIS ST 499 for all or part of the Thesis Project core course. A student may take a maximum of 15 credits of DIS ST 499. To register for DIS ST 499 Independent Study, please fill out this intake form .
Note: 1 credit represents 3 hours of student effort per week. Ad hoc honors work entails additional hours.
Once you have filled out relevant portions you will send this to disstadv@uw.edu . Disability Studies Advisors will request the faculty signature on the your behalf. You are encouraged to turn in your signed INDIV 493 proposal well in advance of the beginning of the quarter in which you plan to enroll. INDIV 493 is like other courses in that it can be added during the 1st week of the quarter for no additional fee, and can be added during weeks 2 and 3 for a $20 change of registration fee.
One DIS ST course from each of the three Subfields in the Required list (15 credits)
Outcomes
Participate in library research tutorials and/or consultations
People
Reflect on how the research contributes to the field of disability studies.
Required Courses
Resources
Rights, Policy, & Inequality
Rights, Policy, & Inequality (5 credits)
Rights, Policy, and Inequality
role="navigation"
Search
Special topics courses may be considered for use in the Required Courses category. Please see the Disability Studies adviser for permission to use a course to fulfill a particular Subfield.
Students must complete the General Education Requirements for the College of Arts and Sciences, including foreign language through 103 or equivalent.
Subfields Required Courses List
Submit a full draft of the paper, a process document, or a reflection essay
Support
Take at least one (1) course from at least two (2) of the Subfields (20-30 credits to 55 total)
Take one (1) course from each Subfield (3 courses total, 15 credits):
The Thesis Project will take the form of a long paper (around 15-20 pages, possibly longer for multiple quarters), a series of other written elements, or a creative expression in other media. Students may also be asked to orally present their research in an appropriate format. In completing their thesis, students will advance and polish their written and oral communication skills necessary for the public dissemination of their ideas.
The Thesis Project with Honors should include in-depth work that significantly supplements the Senior Thesis, such as an additional paper, creative expression in other media, a final presentation, service learning, or community engagement. The Ad Hoc Honors culminating project may alternatively be an independent study project that is separate from the student’s Thesis Project.
Thesis Project undertaken as either INDIV 493: Senior Study (5 credits) or DIS ST 499: Independent Study (5-15 credits)
Write an annotated bibliography or other pre-writing that demonstrates progress in carrying out the planned reading and other research
Write an introduction and methods section
x-html="menuIsOpen ? innerMainMenuContent : ''">
You have the option to complete a 5-credit, 10-credit, or 15-credit Thesis Project. In your Senior year or sooner, enroll in one of these options for the Thesis Project:
You will be expected to attend periodic meetings with your faculty advisor and be prepared to discuss progress on your topic. You are also expected to work with your faculty advisor to develop a "syllabus" that identifies the tasks and activities you will engage in during the Thesis Project. Examples of syllabus activities are listed below.
Your signature, student ID number and email.
