Owner: uw-seattle-medical-laboratory-science
Source: https://dlmp.uw.edu/education/mls-undergrad
Title: MLS Undergraduate Program | Education | Dept. of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology | UW Medicine

- conduct research in industrial, public health, and medical laboratories
- teach in hospitals, colleges, and universities
- work in clinical laboratories in large medical centers, hospitals, and clinics
-->
[Supplemental official source] MLS Program Requirements
[Supplemental official source] UW Medical Laboratory Science program requirements
&copy; 2026 University of Washington, UW Medicine Laboratory Medicine & Pathology | Copyright Information
1. Prerequisite course requirements
10 credits of Arts and Humanities (A&H)
10 credits of Social Sciences (SSc)
1959 NE Pacific St
1959 NE Pacific Street, NW120
2. Completion of University writing, reasoning, and general education requirements by the time you graduate
5 credit Diversity Course (DIV)
5 credits of English Composition (C), plus a minimum 7 credits of additional Writing-intensive (W) courses
5 credits of Reasoning (RSN) &ndash; the Statistics or Chemistry course that you take to meet the program prerequisite requirement will satisfy this general education requirement
A critical part of health care, MLS is a profession of highly knowledgeable and skilled individuals who perform clinical laboratory tests on blood, other body fluids, or tissue samples. Results obtained by these laboratory tests are a vital tool for physicians in their diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease. Successful medical laboratory scientists enjoy studying the biological, chemical, and physical sciences, and find personal satisfaction and intellectual reward in applying scientific methods in the diagnosis and evaluation of disease.
About
About Us
Academic Advising and Contact Information
Anatomic Pathology Licenses & Accreditation
Anatomic Pathology Service Request
Anatomic Pathology Services
Any Basic Statistics course (we do not accept Calculus)
Applicants must also have a cumulative and science GPA of 2.5 to be considered for admission.
Applicants who require accommodation in order to meet these standards should contact the University of Washington Disability Resources for Students after they have been accepted into the program.
Applications Are Due February 15
Apply to the MLS Program
Attendance
Bacteriology
Below are the General Education Requirements for the School of Medicine, which is a graduation requirement, not an MLS program requirement. Therefore, these do not have to be complete to start the MLS program but must be complete in order to graduate. However, the MLS program curriculum is rigorous and therefore recommended that you have as many general education courses complete (if not all) prior to starting the program.
Biochemistry
Biology 180, 200, 220
Blood Draw Locations
Bloodworks Northwest
Box 357110
Box 357470
Calendar of Events
Certificate Program in Clinical Laboratory Leadership & Mana
CHI Franciscan
Client & Patient Services
Clinical Chemistry
Clinical Fellowships
Clinical Hematology
Clinical Microbiology
Clinical Microscopy (Urinalysis and other Body Fluids)
Clinical Pathology Licenses & Accreditation
Coagulation
Contact
Contact Us
Course Catalogs
Courses may be taken at the UW, or at another university, college, or community college. All prerequisite courses do not have to be complete at the time of application to the program (the application deadline is February 15 for entry in Autumn Quarter). However, the applicant must show a specific plan for completion of all prerequisite courses prior to entry in the Professional Phase of the program. If courses are not complete at the time of application, admission will be with the condition that all course work will be completed prior to Autumn Quarter.
Critical Values
Current UW-Seattle Students
December 3, 2025
Department of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology
Department of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology, UW Medicine, University of Washington
Dept. of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology
Diagnostic Services
Diagnostic Testing
DLMP Awards
DLMP Research Faculty & Staff Resources
DLMP Research Flow Cytometry Core
During the freshmen and sophomore years, known as the pre-professional phase, students must earn a minimum of 90 quarter credits, including both prerequisite courses for medical laboratory science and general education courses required for graduation from the University of Washington, as outlined below.
Education
Educational Resources
Events
EvergreenHealth
Faculty & Staff
Faculty & Staff Resources
Faculty Directory
February 4, 2026
Find a Laboratory Test
Find Tests
Flow Cytometry
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
General Chemistry 142, 152, 162
Genetics & Solid Tumors
Graduate Program (M3D)
Graduates of the Medical Laboratory Science Program are expected to have in-depth knowledge of the relationships between laboratory data and pathologic processes, and their relevance to clinical medicine.
Graduation Requirements
Graduation Requirements for Medical Laboratory Science
Harborview Medical Center (HMC)
History, Mission, and Core Values
Home
If coursework is taken at another school, it is important to verify that courses equivalent to those offered at the UW are taken. An advisor at the school should be able to obtain and give you this information.
If you need information about the program, please contact the academic advisor, Heather Eggleston, at medtech@uw.edu to answer your questions or to schedule an advising appointment in-person, via Zoom, or phone.
Immunohematology
Immunology
In the clinical year, the student must be able to be present in the clinical laboratory full-time, 40 hours per week.
January 7, 2026
Jobs
Join us for our upcoming information sessions via Zoom, which will include details about our application process, major, and career options. All sessions are at 4pm Pacific Time. Registration required; sign up for a session today. You can view the MLS information sessions slides ahead of time.
Justice, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (JEDI)
Kaiser Permanente
Lab Med Clinical Research Conference
LabCorp
Laboratory Medicine Grand Rounds
Laboratory Medicine Research Testing Services
Laboratory Medicine Service Request
Latest News
Learn More About MLS
LinkedIn
Make a Gift
MD/PhD Program (MSTP)
Medical Conferences
Medical Student Training
medtech@uw.edu
Menu
Message From the Chair
MLS After the Program
MLS Courses
MLS Faculty and Advising
MLS FAQs
MLS Mission, Goals, and Accreditation
MLS Program Requirements
MLS Undergraduate Program
MLS Undergraduate Program: Requirements
MLS Undergraduate Program: Requirements | Education | Dept. of Laboratory Medicine & Pathology | UW Medicine
Molecular Diagnostics
Molecular Hematopathology
Molecular Microbiology
MS in Laboratory Medicine
MultiCare Tacoma General Hospital
Mycology
News
News in Education
News in Patient Care
News in Research
Notifiable Conditions
November 5, 2025
October 1, 2025
One major advantage of the UW Medical Laboratory Science Program is the opportunity to learn complicated and highly technical laboratory procedures in an internship setting in clinical laboratories.
Online Test Guide
Organic Chemistry 223 or 237: 1 quarter or 1 semester of Organic Chemistry (no lab required)
Overlake Medical Center - Bellevue
P: 206-543-1140
Parasitology
Pathologists' Assistant Program
Pathology Grand Rounds
Pay Your Laboratory Medicine Bill
Payment Info
PeaceHealth
People trained as medical laboratory scientists:
Phlebotomy (blood collection)
Post-Sophomore Fellowship
Postbaccalaureate Students
Pre-Professional Phase
Privacy Policy | UW's Website Terms | Online Privacy Statement | Copyright and Disclaimer
Professional Phase
Providence Health & Services
Ready to apply? Please click on the category below that applies to your current status, follow the directions on that page.
Ready to apply? View application instructions .
Red Cell Disorders
Research
Research Centers
Research Committee
Research Fellowships
Research in Lab Med & Pathology
Research Labs
Research Testing Service (RTS)
Residency & Fellowship Alumni
Residency Program
Resources for Faculty & Staff
Search
Seattle Children's Hospital
Seattle, WA 98195
Seattle, WA 98195-7110
Specific Requirements
Specimen Collection
Staff Directory
Staff Only Test Guide
Stay Connected
Still have questions? View our FAQs .
Students spend the majority of their scheduled time in the core clinical laboratory program in chemistry, hematology, immunohematology, and microbiology.
Submit
Swedish Medical Center
Tel: 206.598.2162
The following courses must be completed prior to entry into the Medical Laboratory Science Program:
The following subjects are included in the professional phase of the curriculum and are taught by faculty in the Departments of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Immunology, and Microbiology:
The last two quarters take place in the clinical laboratories of the University of Washington Medical Center and its affiliates. This type of educational experience requires the cooperation of the clinical laboratories in the facilities listed below. The Medical Laboratory Science Program will not admit more students into the program than can be accommodated in these clinical facilities.
The last two years of study constitute the professional phase. Courses in the first four quarters of this phase are designed to provide students with the appropriate theoretical background and the basic technical skills that will enable them to function effectively in the clinical laboratory.
The MLS Program is a full-time, four-year course of study and is divided into two major parts: the Pre-professional Phase and the Professional Phase. Learn more about these phases and our graduation requirements. Graduates of the program earn a Bachelor of Science degree in Medical Laboratory Science.
They will have experience in the performance of both routine and specialized testing procedures, as well as an understanding of the theoretical basis of these procedures. They will also have experience in troubleshooting and resolving typical problems in the clinical laboratory. Graduates will have experience with laboratory computers, laboratory management, developmental research techniques, instructional methodologies, quality assurance, quality control, and laboratory safety.
This online information session will be facilitated by the MLS academic advisor and provides information about what a medical laboratory scientist does, program admissions, didactic coursework, and clinical internship experiences.
Toggle navigation
Toggle Page Navigation
Toggle Search Input
Training Grant Programs
Transfer Students
Twitter
University of Washington
UW Medical Center (UWMC)- Montlake
UW Medicine
UWMC - Northwest
Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System (VAPSHCS)
View employment rates and program outcomes for MLS graduates.
View pages within this section
Virginia Mason Hospital and Seattle Medical Center
Virology
Visitor Programs
Welcome to the Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology's Medical Laboratory Science (MLS) Undergraduate Program at the University of Washington! Our program offers training in MLS, where basic laboratory science meets the practice of medicine.
Why MLS?
YouTube
