Owner: uw-seattle-food-systems-nutrition-and-health:pathway:public-health-concentration-projects
Source: https://foodsystems.uw.edu/undergraduate/foodsystems/requirements/
Title: Food Systems Major Requirements | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health

-->
[Supplemental official source] Declare the Major
[Supplemental official source] Food Systems Major FAQ
[Supplemental official source] Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major
[Supplemental official source] Interdisciplinary Breadth Courses
[Supplemental official source] Learning Competencies for the BA in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
[Supplemental official source] Requirements
*Course has one or more prerequisites.
&copy; 2026 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
<!--
<svg version="1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
10 credits from among courses that represent the breadth of areas that influence food systems:
10 credits from courses that represent the breadth of areas that influence food systems. Choose from:
30 credits , with cumulative 2.0 GPA.
311 and 330D Raitt Conference Rooms
4-5 credits of statistics. Choose from:
45 college credits with a minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA
5 credits of biology. Choose from:
5 credits of chemistry. Choose from:
5 credits of economics, choose from:
5 credits of Economics. Choose from:
5 credits of qualitative methods. Choose from:
A food system is the interconnected web of activities that includes multiple components of food supply chains, the food environment, consumer behaviors, and health outcomes, all operating within a larger socioeconomic and geopolitical context.
About
Accelerated General Chemistry (6)
Accessibility
ACCTG 219
Admissions
Admitted Food Systems students who wish to pursue a double major/degree must first put together a degree plan reflecting all remaining requirements for both majors, then meet with advisers for both majors to assess whether it is possible to complete this plan within UW’s Satisfactory Progress guidelines . As part of that meeting, we will also discuss motivations for pursuing a double major/degree and challenges that can come up related to the sequencing of the core courses for the Food Systems major.
Advanced Placement (AP) Statistics (5)
Advising
AES 150
AES 151
After Graduation
Alumni
ANTH 210
ANTH 211
ANTH 215
ANTH 361
ANTH/AES/ENVIR 211
Anthropology of Food (5)
Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis to confirm minimum requirements are met and to ensure the degree can be completed within the University’s satisfactory progress policies.
Applications to declare the major are evaluated on a rolling basis to confirm minimum requirements are met and ensure the degree can be completed within the University’s satisfactory progress policies. Learn more about the steps to declare the major.
Apply
Apply systems thinking and a public health approach to identify the beneficial and adverse effects of food systems characteristics across a spectrum of nutritional, population, and environmental health factors.
Approved interdisciplinary breadth courses (pdf)
Approved list of courses that fulfill Interdisciplinary Breadth course requirements for the Food Systems, Health, and Nutrition Major. The Food Systems major requires 15 credits of interdisciplinary breadth courses.
Approved upper-division course electives (pdf)
As a new major, many of our alumni are still early in their career paths, but the UW Career and Internship Center’s Next Destination Survey , along with our alumni profiles , can provide some insight into where students across the School of Public Health land after graduation. We also regularly share food systems related job opportunities on the School of Public Health Jobs page .
As earned through Advanced Placement testing
Assess, critique, and reflect on the scientific evidence, lay literature, and data resources at the nexus of food systems, public health, and nutrition.
ATM S 100
ATM S 101
ATM S 111
ATM S 211
ATMS 111
ATMS 211
B E 220
Bachelor of Arts. A liberal arts degree provides intellectual and practical skills like inquiry, analysis, communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving, all of which are valuable in today’s marketplace.
Beginning in 2024, students who want to sit for the Registered Dietitian Nutritionist (RDN) exam must earn a graduate degree. The Nutritional Sciences Option in the Public Health-Global Health Major leads to a Bachelor of Science degree by providing an organized pathway of courses for students that will help in their preparation for graduate studies in nutrition or dietetics, whether at the UW or with another Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) accredited graduate program .
BIOL 118
BIOL 161/162
BIOL 180
Biology
BIOST 310
Biostatistics for the Health Sciences (4)
Body Weight and Size Inclusivity: Clinical, Behavioral, and Societal Perspectives (5)
Both of the following courses:
Brand & Templates
Briefs
Business, Economics, & Marketing: advertising, business, communication, consumers, distribution, economics, entrepreneurship, food production, informatics, law, leadership, marketing, retail
Calendar
Campus Safety
Can this degree be completed in an online, part-time format?
Capstone
Careers
Center for Public Health Nutrition
Centers & Affiliations
CEP 200
CHEM 120
CHEM 142
CHEM 143
CHEM 145
Chemistry
Choosing a major and choosing a career are often distinct processes, and most UW majors can prepare you for a wide variety of career paths. You can learn about some of those possible paths on our Careers page ; however, it’s important to remember that the job titles listed on that page are only examples, and our students go in many different directions after graduation.
Cities, Health, and Well-Being (3)
Climate and Climate Change (5)
Climate Governance: How Individuals, Communities, NGOs, Firms, and Governments Can Solve the Climate Crisis (5)
Climate-Friendly Dining at the University of Washington
Climate, Justice, and Energy Solutions (5)
Clinical
Close Menu
COM 220
COM 234
COM 289
Committees
Communicating about Health: Current Issues and Perspectives (3)
Communication, Power, and Difference (5)
Complete the online application and upload transcripts for non-UW courses. The application to declare the major is always available and admissions are made on a rolling basis.
Completing MPH with RDN
Completing MS with RDN
Composition or writing
Computer Programming I (4)
Computer Programming II (5)
Computer Programming II* (5)
Connect with us:
Contact
Contact Us
Contacts
Core
Core Requirements (6 credits)
Costs
Costs & Funding
Course Listings
Courses
Courses that satisfy the Interdisciplinary Breadth requirement
CSE 142
CSE 143
Culinary Nutrition Science (3)
Curriculum
Declare the major
Declare the Major
Declare the Major | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Demonstrate effective project management, teamwork, analysis, and communication skills necessary to carry out interdisciplinary work in food systems.
Describe and compare food systems across diverse contexts and scales, including their key components, challenges, and interconnections.
Diet in Health and Disease (3)
Disaster Management, Risk Reduction and Health (5)
Do my community college credits count?
Do you accept post-baccalaureate students?
Doctor of Philosophy
Early Care & Education
Early Learning STARS Training
Eco-Regional School Gardener’s Almanac for the PNW
ECON 200
ECON 201
Economics
Economics of Fisheries and Oceans (5)
Editorial Standards
Elective Coursework (20 credits)
Electives and Concentrations
Elements of Statistical Methods (5)
Eligibility Requirements
Elvis Chan
Emeritus
English Composition, 5 credits
Enrolled Food Systems majors are invited to apply to our Food Systems Major Scholarships on an annual basis. Food Systems students are also eligible to apply to the School of Public Health undergraduate awards . UW’s Office of Merit Scholarships, Fellowships, and Awards (OMSFA) offers a scholarship database on their website that can be used to search for additional scholarship opportunities.
Entry to the major is the quarter immediately following your admission.
ENV H 111
ENV H 306
ENV H 441
ENVIR 100
ENVIR 110
ENVIR 239
ENVIR 240
ENVIR 280
ENVIR 301
Environment & Sustainability: agriculture, agroecology, built environment, climate change, environment, global food security, GIS, hunger, urban food systems, sustainability
Environmental Ethics (5)
Environmental Justice (5)
EPI 221
EPI 320
Equity & Inclusion
Eric Liu
ESRM 100
ESRM 210
ESRM 235
ESS 101
ESS 105
Essentials of Accounting (4)
Evaluate different approaches to food systems that protect and promote nutrition, health, environmental, social, and economic outcomes.
Excluding past quarters when the University of Washington was largely remote due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the core courses for our major have not been offered online, and we currently do not have plans to offer our core courses in an online format. Students seeking an online degree may wish to research offerings through UW Professional and Continuing Education .
Expand All
Experiential Learning
Experiential Learning . You’ll complete a capstone, which is an opportunity to explore solutions to real-world issues in partnership with a community-based organization.
Exploration of Multisensory Dining (3)
Exploration of Multisensory Dining* (3)
Explore
Explore Food at UW
Exploring Environment and Health Connections (3)
Faculty
FAQ
Fieldwork
Find procedures, policies, forms and more resources for completing the Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health major in the Current Students section.
First-year students and sophomores must complete course requirements before declaring the major.
FISH 230
Food & Nutrition Policy
Food Access
Food and Culinary Science (3)
Food Protection (3)
Food Safety and Health (3)
Food Seminar (1)
Food System Sustainability and Resilience (3)
Food Systems & Nutrition
Food Systems Capstone (6)
Food Systems Core - 31 credits
Food Systems Major
Food Systems Major FAQ
Food Systems Major FAQ | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Food Systems Major Requirements
Food Systems Major Requirements | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Food Systems majors hoping to earn credit for food systems related internships should review the information about NUTR 495 on our Undergraduate Internship page .
Food Systems Modeling & Analysis (5)
Food Systems Related Opportunities
Food Systems Students
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health is a minimum requirement major. All students must complete the following in order to declare the major:
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Information Sheet (PDF)
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Seminar (1)
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Declare the Major
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Food Systems Major FAQ
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Food Systems Major Requirements
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Food Systems Major Requirements Interdisciplinary Breadth Courses
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Learning Competencies for the BA in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Nutrition Minor Nutrition Minor Requirements
Food Systems: Harvest to Health (5)
Food Systems: Individual to Population Health (5)
Foundations of Social Inquiry (5)
G H 101
G H 101/JSIS B/GEOG 180
G H 220
G H/ENV H 220
General Chemistry (5)
GEOG 123
GEOG 208
GEOG 271
GEOG 272
GEOG 280
GEOG 371
GEOG 380
GEOG 425
Geographical Patterns of Health and Disease (5)
Geographies of Environmental Justice (5)
Geography of Food and Eating (5)
Geography of the World Economy: Regional Fortunes and the Rise of Global Markets (5)
Giving
Global Environmental Change and Public Health (3)
Global Health Histories: Colonial Medicine, Public Health, and International Health in the Global South (5)
Global Nutrition
Global Nutrition: Challenges and Opportunities (3)
Global Warming: Understanding the Issues (5)
Graduate
Graduate Student Resources
Graduates of the Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major will have developed competency in food systems, nutrition, public health, social and economic equity, and sustainability, as well as strong liberal arts preparation in intellectual and practical skills like inquiry, analysis, communication, critical thinking, and problem-solving. See our Learning Objectives for more information.
Graduation Events
GWSS 244
Health and Sustainability (3)
Highlights
History
Home
Honors General Chemistry (5)
How can I get connected with other students interested in food systems?
How can I prepare for this major?
How do I register for NUTR 441 (Food and Culinary Science)?
How might my grades impact my admission to the major?
HSERV 100
HSERV 204
HSTAA 231
HSTAA/ENVIR 221
HSTCMP 247
I would like to register for an NUTR course, but I am not a Food Systems major, and the course notes indicate that the class is “FSNH only” during Period 1. What does this mean?
Identities, Cultures, and Power Across American Ethnic Groups (5)
In rare cases, an NUTR class may be coded as Food Systems majors only during all registration periods. If that is the case, then the course is only open to our majors, and students who are not declared Food Systems majors are not eligible to register.
In reviewing applications, we focus on the minimum requirements to declare the major . Grades in courses which are not part of the minimum requirements to the declare major are not considered as part of our review.
In the News
In-Justice for All: Intersection of Race, Ethnicity, Class, and Gender in the United States (5)
Incoming Graduate Student Information
Indigenous Feminisms (5)
Interdisciplinary
Interdisciplinary Breadth - 15 credits
Interdisciplinary Breadth Courses
Interdisciplinary Breadth Courses | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Interdisciplinary coursework . Courses you’ll take cover a broad range of areas across campus, while in the food systems core, you’ll dig deep into nutrition and all facets of food systems.
Intranet
Introduction to American Politics (5)
Introduction to Community and Environmental Planning (5)
Introduction to Comparative Politics (5)
Introduction to Environmental Anthropology (5)
Introduction to Environmental Economics (5)
Introduction to Environmental Science (5)
Introduction to Environmental Studies (5)
Introduction to Epidemiology (4)
Introduction to Food and the Environment (5)
Introduction to Foods (5)
Introduction to Geology & Societal Impacts (5)
Introduction to Geology and Societal Impacts (5)
Introduction to Global Health: Disparities, Determinants, Policies, and Outcomes (5)
Introduction to Globalization (5)
Introduction to Labor Studies (5)
Introduction to Macroeconomics (5)
Introduction to Macroeconomics* (5)
Introduction to Medical Anthropology and Global Health (5)
Introduction to Microeconomics (5)
Introduction to Probability and Statistics (5)
Introduction to Public Policy and Governance (5)
Introduction to Public Speaking (5)
Introduction to Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities in the United States (5)
Introduction to Statistical Methods (4)
Introduction to the Geography of Health and Healthcare (5)
Introduction to Urbanization: Planning and Designing Alternative Urban Futures (5)
Introductory Biology (5)
Introductory Soils (5)
Is it possible to declare a double major or double degree with Food Systems and another major?
Issues of Global Justice (5)
Jobs
Joining food systems related student organizations, such as the ASUW Student Food Co-Op and the Dirty Dozen Farm Club , is a great way to get connected to other students interested in food systems.
Juniors and other students who need to declare a major right away may apply with course requirements in progress. Because of core course sequencing, it is not possible to expedite time to graduation, which typically takes 5 to 6 quarters.
Kain Ip
Learning Competencies for the BA in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Learning Competencies for the BA in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Learning objectives
Master of Public Health
Master of Science
Master’s Capstone
Master’s Thesis
Maternal and Child Health-a Population Health Approach (5)
Meetings & Events – Spaces and Planning Resources
Menu
Minimum cumulative 2.0 GPA is needed for courses applied toward the minor.
Minimum of 13 credits must be taken from the School of Public Health (NUTR, ENV H, or EPI courses).
Minimum of 15 credits applied to the minor must be completed in residence through the University of Washington.
Minimum of 15 credits applied to the minor must be taken outside of the student’s major requirements.
Minimum of 15 credits must be completed in 300- and 400-level courses.
Mission & Goals
MNT Concentration Projects
More Information
More profiles
More projects
MPH Application and Materials
MPH Fieldwork
MPH Practicum
MS Application and Materials
My UW
Natural History of the Puget Sound Region (5)
News
News & Events
Nikki Zielinski
NMETH
NURS 211
NURS 215
NUTR 141
NUTR 200
NUTR 200 Nutrition for Today or equivalent
NUTR 202
NUTR 241
NUTR 302
NUTR 303
NUTR 310
NUTR 312
NUTR 341
NUTR 390
NUTR 400
NUTR 402
NUTR 405
NUTR 406
NUTR 411
NUTR 412
NUTR 413
NUTR 415
NUTR 420
NUTR 441
NUTR 441 is offered through UW Professional and Continuing Education . Because of this, NUTR 441 is not covered by regular UW tuition and requires you to register and pay separately from other courses at UW.
NUTR 446
NUTR 465/ BIO A 465
NUTR 490
NUTR 493
Nutrition
Nutrition & Health Equity: dietary guidelines, disease prevention, exercise, environmental health, equity, food safety, global health, nutrition, public health
Nutrition and the Life Course (4)
Nutrition for Today (5)
Nutrition Minor
Nutrition Minor FAQ
Nutrition Minor Information Sheet (PDF)
Nutrition Minor Requirements
Nutrition Minor Requirements | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Nutrition Minor Students
Nutritional Anthropology (3)
OCEAN 101
OCEAN 102
Oceanography of the Pacific Northwest (5)
Opportunities
Other Academic Requirements
Our Faculty
Our Mission
Our Work
Part-time in-person enrollment may be an option for some Food Systems students. Students who wish to enroll on a part-time basis are encouraged to meet with our advisers to discuss how this might impact their degree plan. It is important to note that while our program does not require students to enroll full-time, many students, such as international students or students receiving Financial Aid or certain scholarships, may have other reasons why they need to enroll full time (at least 12 credits per quarter).
Partners
People
Personal and Public Health (3)
PH Concentration Projects
PhD Dissertation
PHIL 243
PHIL/ENVIR 243
PHIL/ETHICS/POL S 207
Physical Activity in Health and Disease (3)
POL S 202
POL S 204
POL S/HSTCMP 249/SOC 266
Power, Oppression, and Social Justice in Health and Healthcare (5)
Practice Experience
Practicum
Preparing
Prerequisite: BIO A 201
Prerequisite: either BIOL 118 or BIOL 220
Prerequisite: either CHEM 120, CHEM 142, MICROM 301, or MICROM 410
Prerequisite: either NUTR 141 or NUTR 241
Prerequisite: either NUTR 200 or NUTR 300
Prerequisite: none
Prerequisite: None
Prerequisite: NUTR 200
Prerequisite: NUTR 200; cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in NUTR 441
Prerequisite: NUTR 200; either CHEM 120 or CHEM 142; and either CHEM 220 or CHEM 237
Prerequisite: NUTR 302
Prerequisite: one 200-level ANTH course
Prerequisites
Presentations
Principles of Chemistry I (5)
Prior to declaring the Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health major, we suggest exploring any of the following first- and second-year courses:
Privacy
Probably. Basic human nutrition courses completed at other schools often transfer to satisfy the NUTR 200 requirement. Additional academic and college-level courses are evaluated for transfer by UW Admissions and are applied to general education and areas of knowledge requirements. See the UW Equivalency Guide for information about how community college courses will transfer to UW and read the Office of Admissions’ transfer credit policies page for additional information.
Profiles
Program
Program Overview
Prospective transfer students interested in learning more about the Food Systems major are encouraged to come to our info sessions or quick questions drop-in advising. Full details for these can found in our calendar . More information about connecting with our advising team can be found on our Advising page .
Public Debate (5)
Public Health Concentration Projects
PUBPOL 201
Q SCI 381
QMETH 201
Qualitative Methodology in Geography (5)
Race And American History (5)
RDN Training
Recent Capstone Projects
Registration
Reports
Requirements
Research
Research & Practice
Research Methods & Technologies - 9-10 credits
Research Methods in Environmental Studies (5)
Research Methods in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health (5)
Resources
Review the major requirements outlined on our website.
Rules Docket
Sample course plan (pdf)
Sample transfer course plan (pdf)
School of Public Health
School of Public Health | University of Washington
Science Literacy - 10 credits
Science, Evidence and Health: Mastering Health Information and Personal Health Technologies (4/5)
Search for:
See a sample course plan .
Seminar
Skip to main content
SMEA/ENVIR 201
SMEA/ENVIR/JSIS B 103
SOC 110
SOC 230
SOC 300
Social & Economic Equity: communication, culture, determinants of health, geography, empowerment, inequality, intersectionality, justice, policy, poverty, society
Social Determinants of Health
Society and the Oceans (5)
Special Topics in Nutritional Sciences (1-5)
SPH Soulcatcher
Sports Nutrition (3)
Staff
Staff Contacts
STAT 220
STAT 221
STAT 290
STAT 311
Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences (5)
Statistical Reasoning (5)
Statistics
Steps
Stories
Student Projects
Students
Students are notified about their entry to the major within 2 weeks after submission.
Students declare the minor with their major adviser.
Students in the major are required to maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA in their core Food Systems courses, including NUTR 200 (Nutrition for Today). Bearing this in mind, while a grade below 2.0 in NUTR 200 would not automatically disqualify a student from declaring the major (provided that they did earn credit for the course), it would likely prompt a conversation with advising regarding the Food Systems Major Continuation Policy and strategies for success moving forward.
Students must declare a major and have completed a minimum of 45 credits before declaring the minor.
Students who have already completed one bachelor’s degree who apply to UW to pursue a second bachelor’s degree in Food Systems would be considered post-baccalaureate applicants . Because UW’s primary commitment is to undergraduates who are completing their first undergraduate degree, only a small number of applicants are admitted as post-baccalaureate students. Students who have already completed an undergraduate degree who are interested in food systems or nutrition will typically be best served by instead pursuing a graduate level degree.
Students who have declared the Food Systems major can also get more involved by serving on student committees, such as the Food Systems Undergraduate Student Advisory Council (U-SAC) or the School of Public Health Dean’s Advisory Council for Students (DACS) . Current students and alumni are also encouraged to join our SPH Student and Alumni Networking Group on LinkedIn.
Students will also meet the competencies for all School of Public Health degrees .
Suggested first- and second-year courses: biology, chemistry, composition or writing, economics, nutrition, statistics, and courses that satisfy the Interdisciplinary Breadth requirement.
Summer Godfrey
Support Us
Survey of Physiology (5, preferred)
Survey of Sociology (5)
Sustainability: Personal Choices, Broad Impacts (3-5)
Sustainability: Personal Choices, Broad Impacts (5)
Sustainable Food Systems in Italy (5)
Terms
The Bachelor of Arts with a major in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health explores the complex intersections and relationships among food, culture, economics, the environment, justice, labor, policy, and population health. Many of the world’s widespread health challenges are consequences of broken food systems. You’ll study these systems and their impacts on nutrition and health outcomes.
The Changing Oceans (5)
The core courses in the major provide a foundation in food systems and nutrition followed by exploration of the interactions within food systems using multiple methods, tools, and lenses, including policy, modeling, and community engaged scholarship. Building on this broad foundational coursework, a substantial array of upper division courses enables students to develop a depth of knowledge needed to work in food systems, or to advance food systems, nutrition, and health goals through work in a variety of sectors. Throughout the curriculum, students will apply food systems knowledge through various experiential learning activities, including developing practical and critical thinking skills in a culminating capstone experience aimed at solving real-world problems alongside a variety of partners.
The Earth: Its Processes and Hazards (5)
The following first- and second-year courses are suggested:
The Food Systems major is not a clinical nutrition or dietetics degree and will not, alone, prepare students for that career path.
The list of approved electives (pdf) includes information about how to check registration restrictions for these courses; limitations on the number of food systems related internship, study abroad, service learning, and research credits that can be applied towards this requirement; and the course substitution process.
The minor requires a total of 26 credits. You must take enough elective credits that when combined with the credits from your core requirements, you have a minimum of 26 total credits.
The Nutrition Minor requires a total of 26 credits. Students follow the requirements that are in place at the time they declare the minor.
The Urban Farm (5)
Timeline
Top-ranked School of Public Health . As a major in an accredited School of Public Health, you’ll be introduced to public health.
Traineeships
Trainings
Transfer students must first apply for general admission to the University of Washington. After receiving an offer from the UW, admitted transfer students can then fill out the online application above to start at the UW in the Food Systems major.
Transfer students should have no difficulty completing a Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health major within two years at the University. The Washington community colleges Direct Transfer Agreement (DTA) associate degree provides great preparation for the major and key courses, such as introduction to nutrition, economics, statistics, and physiology, are readily available.
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Capstone
Undergraduate Internship
Undergraduate Student Resources
Undergraduate Study
United States Food Systems Policy (5)
University of Washington
University of Washington -->
University of Washington Food Systems Working Group: Support for the Sustainability Action Plan
Upon satisfactory completion of the BA in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health, graduates will be able to:
Upper-Division Course Electives - 20 credits
URBDP 200
US Environmental History: Ecology, Culture, Justice (5)
US Food Systems Policy (5) Writing
UW Admissions offers Transfer Thursdays sessions on applying for admission to the university. Advisers from across the School of Public Health also offer drop-in advising as part of Transfer Thursdays. The UW Transfer Equivalency Guide can be used to determine how courses taken at a Washington community college will transfer to UW.
UW Food Systems Network
VALUES 207
Vanessa Perez
View requirements from previous academic years.
We encourage you to learn more about the major by attending an information session (either live or pre-recorded ) and reading through this website.
We frequently post food systems related volunteer and internship opportunities on the School of Public Health Student Funding and Opportunities Page . In the past, several of our students have lined up volunteer opportunities or internships at the UW Farm , UW Food Pantry , or local food banks. The UW Community Engagement and Leadership Education Center (CELE) has offered a number of food systems-related internships through their Undergraduate Community-Based Internships (UCBI) program in the past, and UW’s Harry Bridges Center for Labor Studies may also be a good place to look, depending on your interests. The SPH Undergraduate Blog , Idealist , and United Way of King County may also be helpful regarding volunteering opportunities. Many farms and farm-related organizations in the Northwest organize regular volunteer days, which can be a good entry point to learning more about an organization. UW Handshake or Idealist.org can also be good places to find food systems related opportunities.
We often restrict some sections of our courses to declared Food Systems majors during Period 1 registration in order to give our majors, who need these courses to graduate, first priority. If the course has multiple discussion sections, it’s a good idea to check to see if other sections of the course are open to non-majors. If all open sections of the course are restricted to Food Systems majors, you can keep an eye on the course and try to register after the course opens to non-majors if there is space available, but you should register for another course as a backup in the meantime. You can also consult our tentative course schedule to determine when the course will next be offered.
Weather (5)
What are the major requirements?
What is a food system?
What kinds of jobs can I get with this major?
What kinds of scholarships or other funding opportunities are available to students in this major?
What resources are available to help prospective transfer students planning to apply to this major?
What will students learn in this major?
What's a sample 4-year course workload?
When can I declare the major?
When you pursue a Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health (FSNH) degree at the University of Washington School of Public Health, you will gain a deep understanding of how food systems—including their environmental, economic, social, and other facets—affect our nutrition and health. The FSNH major is a STEM Bachelor of Arts major that offers graduates the knowledge, problem-solving skills, and leadership abilities to address the complex challenges and opportunities in food systems across diverse contexts and scales. Graduates will be trained in interdisciplinary and systems-based thinking, which can help them to excel in professions within and beyond food systems.
Where can I find food systems related volunteer or internship opportunities?
While it is not possible for a student to double major/double degree with Food Systems and another major within the School of Public Health, in some cases it may be possible to double with a major in another UW School or College.
width="19px" height="51px" viewBox="0 0 18.776 51.062" enable-background="new 0 0 18.776 51.062" xml:space="preserve" focusable="false">
Will this major prepare me for a clinical nutrition graduate degree?
Word List and Terms
World Hunger and Agricultural Development (5)
You must complete all major requirements outlined on this page and the general education requirements for the School of Public Health.
You will choose a minimum of 20 credits of 300- and 400-level courses organized around 4 concentrations as electives. Concentrations, which do not appear on your transcript, allow you to focus electives on broad areas that impact these systems. These concentrations are:
