Owner: uw-seattle-computer-science:pathway:3-plan-a-pathway-toward-a-specific-specialization
Source: https://www.cs.washington.edu/academics/undergraduate/degree-requirements/
Title: Degree Planning & Requirements - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering

[Supplemental official source] Preparing for Industry: Suggested Computing Specializations
311 Foundations I
312 Foundations II
331 Software Design & Implementation
332 Data Structures & Parallelism
A few recommendations apply regardless of career interest. Most students benefit tremendously from doing internships. Internships complement coursework by allowing students to work intensively on a single project using modern technology. Likewise, capstones are valuable for most career paths, again, because employers value project experience in addition to understanding relevant concepts. Research experience is useful regardless of whether you intend to pursue a graduate degree because the ability to work independently is valuable in many career contexts. It is also an ideal way to get to know individual faculty — and have them know you so they can give you personalized advice.
A minimum grade of 2.0 in CSE 123 or 143
A minimum grade of 2.0 in CSE 123 or 143; a minimum grade of 2.0 in MATH 126 or 135
Academic Programs
Academic Satisfactory Progress Petition
Accessible Accordion
After speaking with their assigned adviser, students may complete this form to request approval to extend beyond 210 credits AND 12 quarters at the UW. If a student receives approval from the Allen School, they will also need to petition the University. The Allen School Advising Team will assist students with that process if their Allen School petition is approved. Departmental approval alone does not guarantee University approval for a graduation extension.
Allen School Blog ↗
Co-requisite(s)
Computer graphics engineers develop software for creating images,videos, and even 3D worlds. Computer vision engineers analyze 2D, 3D and even 4D data with goals such as object recognition, video analysis, content-based image retrieval, 3D reconstruction and more. Game designers use graphics and HCI skills to create video games for people to play and enjoy. Animation production encompasses the whole process of creating animated films. Our animation capstone sequence is interdisciplinary, including students from other departments.
Computing Specializations
Course
CSE 190: Security
CSE 190M: Web Development
CSE 300-Level Courses & their Prerequisites
CSE 331 Petitions
CSE 456/458/459/460 (Animation Production)
CSE 500 Level Course Petitions
CSE is an ever-growing field, and a CSE degree provides an amazing breadth of opportunities. To meet the needs and career goals of our unique students, we have designed our degree requirements to be quite flexible, particularly at the 400-level. We want our students to talk to advisers and professors to determine what courses they will find most useful and enjoyable.
Data Mining
Databases
Degree Planning & Requirements
Description coming soon!
Distinguished Lecture Series
ECE Course Petitions:
Education
EE 205: Embedded Systems
EE 215: Embedded Systems, Robotics & Control Systems
Embedded Systems
Embedded systems are designed to fit into the fabric of the environment around us. An embedded system is distinguished from a general-purpose system by some very important properties: (1) an embedded system usually interfaces computing with the physical world (sensing and actuation); (2) it is not intended to be reprogrammed by the user although some parameters may be specified; and (3) it has user interfaces that are optimized for the task so as to be as seamless as possible. A good example is an anti-lock breaking system in a car where sensors measure the performance of the brakes and a micro-controller computes the pressure to actuate on the brake disks; the manufacturer may occasionally update the software but not the car owner; and the user interface is the simple brake pedal with which drivers are already familiar. The distinctions between embedded and general-purpose systems are not always so precise. A modern mobile phone is certainly programmable (the user can download new apps as with a PC) but there are components such as the GSM module (performing the communication between the phone and cellular infrastructure) whose software elements are rarely changed or upgraded. Similarly, the GPS module of the phone performs the specific function of determining a position on Earth from signals sent by orbiting satellites. An embedded system designer is likely to focus on these task-specific modules while coordinating their use in the more general-purpose phone. Other excellent examples of embedded systems are modern video game controllers that use a user’s physical gestures (sensed through embedded accelerometers or cameras) to control game elements. Embedded systems designers and engineers work in a variety of industries and on varied applications ranging from medical instrumentation and aerospace to mobile devices and smart environments.
Events Calendar
For each specialization, we list the most important elective courses. This does not imply that other courses are not equally important, but these are the key courses that cover topics that define the specialization. We also list other recommended courses for each specialty.
General Advice
Generally speaking, most students should plan to take the 400 level courses in the Allen School. There are exceptions however for students who have advanced understanding to occasionally take CSE 500 level courses. Typically a PhD Breadth 500 level course where a student has not previously taken the undergraduate version of the course can be allowed to count as a Core course. Note that this is only for PhD breadth courses. If a course is listed on our breadth requirements for PhD students they are often (not always) allowed as a Core Course substitution. Sometimes there are restrictions however on whether or not a student has taken the 400 level version of the course. An example would be that you are allowed to take 421 and 521 because they differ enough to both count. However there are other courses where you are NOT allowed to receive credit for both, i.e. 446 and 546 for example. It’s best to check with an adviser about your long term plans before requesting an exception. We hope to have an explicit list in the future, but for now, you should check with an adviser.
Graphics, Vision, Games, and Animation
Hardware Design/Engineering
Hardware designers implement computational devices using a variety of technologies at a wide range of levels. For example, computer architects design and implement processors using high-level components such as memories, registers, and arithmetic components, while embedded systems designers assemble application-specific systems using microcontrollers, memories, wired and wireless communication components and a large variety of sensor devices. Other hardware engineers design hardware components and systems at the gate or transistor level using FPGA (Field-Programmable Gate Array) or VLSI chip technology. Today’s FPGAs allow designers to construct highly optimized hardware systems for computationally intensive applications like image processing (e.g. face and object recognition and transcoding), encryption/decryption and data compression using cheap and reusable hardware. The area of Computer-Aided Design involves designing algorithms for compiling high-level hardware descriptions into low-level circuit implementations.
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 190M, 403, 444
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 333, 369, EE 371, 451, 461, 474, capstone: 477
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 344, 440, capstone: 490D (or 476, 477, 481 depending on interests)
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 344, 444, 451, 484, 446
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 369, CSE/EE 371 467, 474, 477
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 446, 473, 421 & STAT 391
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 457/458 (Graphics), CSE 455/473 (Vision), CSE 457/481D (Games),
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 492T, CSE 590E, EDUC 251, EDC&I 351
However, many students find some structure and guidance useful. Degree requirements are naturally important, but what you must take to graduate differs from what you ought to take to achieve your goals. It may be unclear which courses are particularly relevant for some of the more common job titles or career paths you may be considering.
If a student completes EE 215 that can use that to replace EE 205, however EE 205 is strongly encouraged for our CE majors
If a student completes EE 271, they can use that to replace CSE 369
If you have MATH 300 completed, you can take CSE 311 and CSE 332 at the same time. Your Allen School adviser can help you register since you won’t have CSE 311 pre-req credit yet.
In a fast moving technical domain like computer science and engineering, continuing education (either formally or informally through self-directed learning) is a necessity — the courses of studies listed below are intended to help you get started in a topic. They are by no means a complete set of everything you need to know to have a successful career in any of these areas.
In many nations around the world, computing systems are seeing a radically different development and evolution than what has happened in heavily industrialized nations. For example, the dominant computing device is the mobile phone rather than the laptop or desktop. Phones are more mobile, more easily powered where the power infrastructure is less developed, and have communication capability for both voice and data (SMS and GPRS). Arguably, the phone is the truly personal computer that everyone around the world carries with them. A new engineering discipline is emerging that solves problems using appropriate technology for the many environments around the world that have many fewer resources than our own. It often explores a very different range of designs and solutions than what might be appropriate within our familiar environment. The field of ICTD focuses on deploying technology to help spur economic and social development as well as improving health and education services. Application areas cover improving public health (both clinic and community outreach efforts), educational applications (traditional schools as well as adult education), helping illiterate populations bridge the digital divide, and facilitating financial instruments that operate with the smaller amounts of poorer economies. ICTD systems must carefully account for economic, cultural, and language aspects of the communities and users where they are deployed. ICTD is one of the more inter-disciplinary branches of CSE.
Informations & Communications Technologies for Development (ICTD)
Interactions with Biology, Bioengineering, Medicine & Genomics
Latest News
Machine learning and data mining are increasingly important activities and there is extremely high demand for people skilled in these areas. For example, data mining is used to tune Web search engine ranking functions, to evaluate the merit of credit card applications, to determine when a retail store should reorder products, and even to optimize the energy efficiency of advanced CPU architectures. A strong background in statistics (e.g., STAT391) and algorithm design (421) will be very useful when designing data-mining systems. 446 is the core course in the area and 473 will broaden your knowledge of AI methods. Frequently, the data to be mined is stored in a large relational DBMS; deep knowledge of database design and implementation (444) will let you create a much more effective system.
Many employers care deeply about “soft skills” — written and oral communication, teamwork, and time management. Communicating your ideas and organizing yourself is necessary for your technical skills to be useful. Gain experience in these areas.
MATH 134, 135 and 136: honors math track students have two options:
MATH 336: For students who complete MATH 336, they may petition to request to take CSE 431 in place of taking CSE 311. This waiver is contingent on the strength of the grade in MATH 336.
More information about a CS education career can be found on this page.
More specifically in terms of our curriculum, most students should take more than the minimum number of 300-level courses. The minimum is allowed for students who want to move quickly into a narrower specialty. In particular, while 331 is not required for CompE, we believe most students should take both courses. Software development skills and knowledge of hardware are extremely valuable. Because this advice applies generally, 331 is not explicitly listed under most of the specializations.
None
One of the most exciting aspects of computer science today is its promise to cross over from the “core” to make significant contributions in disparate application domains, and biology/medicine are among the most promising of these connections. They are undergoing a sea change, with new technologies such as genome sequencing providing floods of data that will elucidate fundamental biomedical truths, if we can provide the appropriate computational tools to expose them. This encompasses a very broad landscape, including:
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: CSE 401 (techniques in compiling can be useful for embedded systems and configurable computing systems), 421 (Computer-Aided Design requires a strong background in algorithms), 446 (machine-learning techniques are widely used in embedded systems) & EE 476 (Digital Integrated Circuit Desing: Transistor-level design of digital systems, 477 (VLSI II: Advanced Digital IC Design)
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: CSE 401, 403, 484, EE 417 (Modern
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: HCDE 417 (Usability Research Techniques), 418 (User Experience Design), 419 (Survey of Concepts in Human-Computer Interaction) & INFO 360 (User-Centered Design), 380 (Information Systems Analysis and Management)
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 421, 446 & EE 440
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 440
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 461, 474
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 474 & EE 215
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 440, 467 & EE 205 or EE 215
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 444
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 451, 461
Other Recommended Courses: EE 406, EDUC 401
Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Ph.D. Dissertation Talks
Please refer to the Allen School Continuation Policy for information about minimum course load, dropping required courses, and other academic policies and procedures.
Prerequisite(s)
Research Colloquia
Some students may need to petition the university for additional credits or quarters to complete their degree due to extenuating circumstances. Students must have a conversation with their academic adviser if they feel their situation warrants an extension of the University’s academic satisfactory progress policy, which requires students to complete their undergraduate degree program within 30 credits beyond the minimum required for their degree.
Specializations
Specializations By Department & Course Number
Students sometimes decide to delay taking CSE 331 until the end of their time in the Allen School with the intention to waive the course based on prior internship/industry experience. These petition requests are always denied. If you are petitioning a waiver for any course, you typically need to prove how you have acquired the academic knowledge covered in the course. Simply having internship experience has been determined to not be a viable substitute for this course. Ideally students would complete 331 early in their academic career and before embarking on a software internship to get the most benefit from the course.
The core courses for ICTD (from a CSE perspective) are very close to those for embedded systems design but with a stronger emphasis on information system design. Many courses in the Information School and Department of Human-Centered Design and Engineering are also very appropriate as are courses in areas of public health, economic policy, and education (depending on student interests). You may also want to attend the Change seminar on Thursdays at noon (CSE590C1) to hear speakers talk about work on ICTD both at UW and elsewhere – attendees are undergrads, grads, researchers, and faculty from around campus and the greater Seattle area.
The following list of “specializations” are typically either areas of computing or job titles or both. Unfortunately, most job titles are not used consistently by different companies — as one example, “software engineer” can range from meaning “entry-level programmer” to “advanced software architect.” Nonetheless, we try to follow the most common usage.
The information below is meant to help you understand the CSE 300-level courses and their prerequisites. Click here for a visual representation of the information .
The most core courses to an embedded systems career stress a deep understanding of how devices connect to the physical world and how real-time control software can be used to control physical systems and manage highly concurrent tasks.
There are a host of other jointly listed courses between ECE and CSE
There are multiple facets to working with databases, and different jobs may emphasizes different facets. The application facet requires you to have a good understanding of database design, SQL, XML, jdbc: definitely take 344 and strongly consider 484 and 403. If you want to be a true expert, however, it will tremendously help you to know how databases work inside, how they are implemented, so make sure to take 444! 440 may be helpful for creating applications that are easy to use, so you should consider it. For the server facet (database administrator) you must have a good understanding of query processing techniques, types of indices, transactions, and anything that deals with systems performance; take 344, 444, 484, and very strongly consider 451. For the data analyst/data-intensive computing facet, you need to have some exposure to massively parallel data processing techniques such as MapReduce, or Pig Latin, and some basics in data mining: take 344, 444, 446.
These exciting specialties require creativity, as well as computer science and math skills.
Undergraduate Education
We encourage you to take courses that interest you even if (or especially if) they are not listed for your career of interest — a fresh perspective is often the seed of creativity.
We, therefore designed this page to be a starting point in directing you toward specific employment specializations.
Wireless Communications), EE 442 (Digital Signals and Filtering), EE 484 (Sensors and Sensor Systems)
You can take CSE 311 and CSE 332 at the same time AFTER completing MATH 136. Note that you will need help from an adviser when registering for CSE 332 as it generally requires CSE 311 to be completed. Your Allen School adviser can help you get registered for both courses.
You can take MATH 136 and CSE 311 at the same time (typically in the Spring) as the CSE 311 prereq is MATH 126 or MATH 135.
