Owner: uw-seattle-slavic-languages-and-literatures
Source: https://slavic.washington.edu/undergraduate-policies
Title: Undergraduate Policies | Slavic Languages & Literatures | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] BA in Eastern European Languages, Literature & Culture
[Supplemental official source] BA in Russian Language, Literature & Culture
[Supplemental official source] Global Literary Studies (GLITS)
* List of approved GLITS courses
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
50th Anniversary
53-55 credits
A dynamic collaboration of multiple UW departments and housed in the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, Global Literary Studies (GLITS) introduces students to works of literature from around the world and from all eras of human history. Drawing on the expertise of faculty from across the Humanities Division, GLITS offers students a rich array of courses that reveal the importance and lasting impact of various forms of imaginative writing and speech. All GLITS courses are taught in English and work with literature in English translation. Skills developed by the study of literature include the ability to effectively communicate in oral and written form, to activate one's imagination and creativity, and to engage with varied points of view, ways of thinking, and lived experiences. GLITS is a flexible program of study that provides students many opportunities to customize their degree.
A minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 for all courses presented for this major.
A minimum grade of 2.0 in each course and a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.50 for all UW and transfer courses presented for this major.
A minimum of 15 credits from the following list of courses ( no more than 5 credits may be taken at the 100 level) :
A minimum of 15 graded credits presented for this major must be completed through the UW.
A minimum of 20 credits from the following list of courses (no more than 5 credits may be taken at the 100 level):
A minimum of 50% of credits applied to the major must be taken at the 300 or 400 level.
A student who is placed on probation or dismissed and who believes that his or her record has been misunderstood may appeal (in writing) to our ad hoc appeals committee, consisting of faculty, staff and the lead graduate teaching assistant. The appeal must be given to the student advisor within 30 days of notification of probation or dismissal. The faculty committee will respond to the appeal within 30 days.
A student who withdraws from the University [or from a required Slavic L&L course] or whose quarter schedule is cancelled for nonpayment of fees must obtain permission from the Department before registering for subsequent Slavic L&L courses. Petitions should be made through the student advisor.
About
Academic Counseling
Academic Organizations & Journals
Admission Requirements: Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time.
Admission Type: Open
Admissions and Advising
Advising
All students are subject to general University policies regarding grades and credits. The University requires students to maintain a 2.0 cumulative GPA. No course required for the degree may be taken S/NS. The Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures specifies the following additional requirements.
Alumni
Alumni & Annual Outreach
Alumni News
Alumni Update
Appeals
B.A. in Eastern European Languages, Literature, and Culture
B.A. in Eastern European Languages, Literature, and Culture | Slavic Languages & Literatures | University of Washington
B.A. in Russian Language, Literature, and Culture
B.A. in Russian Language, Literature, and Culture | Slavic Languages & Literatures | University of Washington
BA in Eastern European Languages, Literature & Culture
BA in Global Literary Studies (GLITS)
BA in Global Literary Studies (GLITS) | Slavic Languages & Literatures | University of Washington
BA in Russian Language, Literature & Culture
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Global Literary Studies
BCMS 420: Literature, Film & Culture of the Former Yugoslavia and Yugoslav Successor States
Beyond our program, students benefit from the department’s close ties to the Ellison Center for Russian, East European and Central Asian Studies in the Jackson School of International Studies , as well as to local Slavic communities . They also have the opportunity to take what they learn outside the classroom, by participating in study abroad , completing an internship , or attending one of our many departmental events .
Beyond our program, students benefit from the department’s close ties to the Ellison Center for Russian, East European and Central Asian Studies in the Jackson School of International Studies , as well as to local Slavic communities . They also have the opportunity to take what they learn outside the classroom, by participating in study abroad , practicing their language skills at Russian Table , or attending one of our many departmental events .
Bosnian Croatian Montenegrin Serbian
Bosnian/Croatian/Montenegrin/Serbian (BCMS 406 or 410)
Box 354335
Bulgarian
Bulgarian (BULGR 406)
Calendar
Careers
College of Arts & Sciences
Community Organizations
Completion of the second year or higher of ONE of the following East European languages:
Completion Requirements
Contact Us
Continuation Policy
Conversation Groups
Courses
Czech (CZECH 406)
CZECH 420: Topics in Czech Literature
Czech-Slovak
Department Newsletter
Directories
Dissertations
Diversity & Equity
Doctoral Program
During any probationary quarter, no later than the end of the first week of the quarter.
Electives (23-25 credits): any combination of the courses listed in requirement #1 above, second-year or above language courses (maximum 15 credits), or courses from a list of approved elective courses. See adviser or department website for list of approved elective courses* (a course not on the approved list must be approved by the program adviser). Maximum one 200-level course graded as credit/no credit may count toward this requirement.
Examinations & Tests
Extracurricular Activities
Facebook
Faculty
Faculty & Staff Resources
Featured Courses
Fields of Interest
Financial Support
Find Opportunities
Fulbright Fellows
Give now
GLITS Courses
GLITS People
GLITS Program Overview
Global Literary Studies
Global Literary Studies (GLITS)
Graduate
Graduate Student Resources
Graduate Students
History
Home
Honors Program
How to Apply
HSTEU 444/JSIS A 444: Imperial Russia: 1700-1900
HSTEU 445/JSIS A 445: The Rise and Fall of the Soviet Union
If you are a current or prospective GLITS major, please sign up for our major email list !
In exceptional circumstances students may petition the Department for permission to take fewer than 12 credits. A request for part-time status should be made to the student advisor prior to the first day of the quarter. Students who receive permission to attend part time must complete at least one course applicable toward their degree each quarter.
Independent Studies
Instagram
Integrative Experience Course (5 credits): GLITS 450
Internships
Introduction to Literature (5 credits): one course from GLITS 250, GLITS 251, GLITS 252, or GLITS 253
Kolokol Summer Quarter Student Magazine
Literature Across Boundaries (20 credits): courses from at least two of the following five categories. See adviser or department website for list of approved courses (a course not on the approved list must be approved by the program adviser):
Literature Across Disciplines: explores literature in conjunction with other fields of study, such as environmental humanities, medical humanities, or studies of literature and law, literature and art
Literature Across Genres/Modes: literary work developed across various forms of imaginative expression, such as the adaptation of prose fiction to theater, or treatment of a common theme in multiple genres (such as poetry, legend, opera, comics, fictional and non-fictional narrative, essays)
Literature Across Languages: translation studies and the literature of languages in contact, including the varieties and interrelationships of Global English
Literature Across Places: strategies of reading and imagined dialogues between texts from disparate places
Literature Across Times: studies in literary and cultural history, spanning multiple periods
Literature Core Courses (25 credits):
Mailing List
Main menu
Major Requirements
Maps
Master of Arts Program
Menu
Minimum 30 credits taken in 300/400 level courses
Minors in Russian Language, Slavic Languages, or Russian & Slavic Literatures
Mission Statement
MyUW
News & Events
Newsletter
Newsletters
One ore more of these language courses may be satisfied by taking placement exam and testing out of them. A successful placement exam does not count towards the 50-credit requirement.
Other Study Abroad Opportunities
Our Programs
Overview
Padelford A210
People
Phone: (206) 543-6848
Please contact an advisor at the Humanities Academic Services Center or email Professors Gordana Crnković or Naomi Sokoloff (faculty advisors).
PLEASE NOTE: The University of Washington requires a minimum of 50 credits for all majors. Students who test out of Slavic Department language requirements MUST STILL complete 50 credits appropriate to the Eastern European Languages, Literature, and Culture major , and should select alternate courses with the assistance of an adviser in the Humanities Academic Services Center .
PLEASE NOTE: The University of Washington requires a minimum of 50 credits for all majors. Students who test out of Slavic Department language requirements MUST STILL complete 50 credits appropriate to the Russian Language, Literature, and Culture major , and should select alternate courses with the assistance of an adviser in the Humanities Academic Services Center .
Policies & Forms
Polish
Polish (POLSH 406)
POLSH 320: Introduction to Contemporary Polish Culture
POLSH 420: Topics in Polish Literature
Privacy
Prizes
Program Overview
Programs & Courses
Projects
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Recommended Preparation
Research
Resources
Resources & Opportunities
Review of Progress
Romanian
Romanian (ROMN 406)
RUSS 110 (5 credits)
RUSS 111, 112, 113: First-Year Medical Russian
RUSS 120: Topics in Russian Literary and Cultural History
RUSS 210: From Paganism to Christianity: Medieval Russian Mythology, Literature, and Culture
RUSS 220: Topics in Russian Literary and Cultural History
RUSS 223: Russian Cinema
RUSS 230: Masterpieces of Russian Literature
RUSS 240: Vladimir Nabokov
RUSS 260: Underworlds
RUSS 301, 302, and 303; OR RUSS 350 (15 credits)
RUSS 313, 314: Business Russian
RUSS 316: Extended Russian Through Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math
RUSS 320: Topics in Russian Literary and Cultural History
RUSS 322, 323 (10 credits, may be taken in any order)
RUSS 324: Russian Folk Literature in English
RUSS 340 (5 credits)
RUSS 401, 402, 403: Fourth-Year Russian
RUSS 420: Topics in Russian Literary and Cultural History
RUSS 421: Post-Soviet Literary and Cultural Scene
RUSS 422: Russian Literature in Emigration and Exile
RUSS 423: Russian Film
RUSS 424: Topics in Ethnicity and Cultural Identity
RUSS 425: Russian Drama
RUSS 426: Russian Art and Architecture
RUSS 427: Russian Jewish Experience
RUSS 430: Major Authors
RUSS 450: Intensive Fourth-Year Russian
RUSS 451: Structure of Russian
RUSS 481, 482, 483, 486: Study Abroad (see adviser)
RUSS 490: Studies in Russian Literature
Russian
Russian language, culture, and politics play an important role beyond Central and Eastern Europe, affecting the international community as a whole. To develop an understanding of this complex country and its people, students pursuing a B.A. in Russian Language, Literature, and Culture start with intensive language study. They then build on this knowledge with diverse cultural studies, including Russian art, cinema, literature, and history. Opportunities for close relationships with acclaimed faculty and hands-on learning are at the core of this transformative experience, and allow students to develop exceptional insight into Russia and the people who reside there.
Satisfactory Progress
Scholarships
Scholarships & Financial Support
Search
Seattle, WA 98195
See the Humanities First webpage .
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
SLAVIC 101, SLAVIC 320, SLAVIC 370, and SLAVIC 425 (20 credits)
SLAVIC 101: Slavic Lands and Peoples
SLAVIC 110: The Slavic Languages
SLAVIC 210: Introduction to Bilingualism
SLAVIC 223: East European Cinema
SLAVIC 320: The Other Europe: Post-World War II East European Fiction
SLAVIC 323: Masterpieces of East European Cinema
SLAVIC 351: Introduction to the History of Slavic Languages
SLAVIC 370: What is in a Language Name? The Case of BCMS
SLAVIC 401: Research Methods and Writing
SLAVIC 423: East European Film
SLAVIC 425: Ways of Meaning: Universal & Culture Specific Aspects of Language
SLAVIC 426: Ways of Feeling: Expressions of Emotion across Languages & Cultures
SLAVIC 426: Ways of Feeling: Expressions of Emotions Across Languages & Cultures
SLAVIC 470: Special Topics in Slavic Linguistics
SLAVIC 481, 482, 483, 486: Study Abroad (see advisor)
SLAVIC 490: Studies in Slavic Literatures
SLAVIC 498: Senior Honors Thesis
Slavic L&L majors must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 for all courses presented for the Department major.
Slavic Languages & Literatures
slavoffice@uw.edu
Slovene
Slovene (SLVN 406)
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Activities & Prizes
Student records are reviewed quarterly. If a student fails to meet the standards outlined above, the student will be placed on probation for the following quarter and will be notified in writing of the probationary status and what must be done to remove it. Students who fail to meet the criteria for two consecutive quarters will be dropped from the program. In addition, a student who has accumulated three probationary quarters will be dropped from the program.
Students working toward the B.A. in Eastern European Languages, Literature, and Culture undertake two years of language studies in Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin, Serbian; Polish; Slovene; or Ukrainian, and build on this linguistic foundation by exploring the culture of Eastern European communities through literature, cinema, cultural surveys, and more. Opportunities for close relationships with acclaimed faculty and hands-on learning are at the core of this transformative experience, and allow students to develop exceptional insight into the ways people in Central and Eastern Europe experience the world.
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Summer Language Intensives
Support Slavic Languages & Literatures
Support Us
Terms
The BA in Slavic L&L is meant to be completed on a full-time basis. Full-time students are expected to complete 12 or more credits applicable to the degree each academic quarter.
The Department of Slavic Languages & Literatures stands in solidarity with the people of Ukraine. Please read our full statement .
The Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures wants every student to succeed in our program, but we are also responsible for upholding academic standards. The continuation policy specifies the rules students must follow to make satisfactory progress in the major. In addition, we encourage our students to be proactive about seeking advice from the undergraduate advisor or faculty members for problems affecting performance or participation here at the university.
The quarter of graduation, for database update and exit interview.
Tutors, Translators, & Interpreters
Twitter
UKR 420: Literature, Film, and Culture of Ukraine
Ukrainian
Ukrainian (UKR 406)
Ukrainian Studies Newsletter
Undergraduate
Undergraduate advising is handled by the Humanities Academic Services Center . All Slavic L&L majors are encouraged to seek out a student adviser as often as they wish, and at least once a year. Required counseling appointments are as follow:
Undergraduate Policies
Undergraduate Policies | Slavic Languages & Literatures | University of Washington
University of Washington
University of Washington students in good academic standing may declare the major at any time by meeting with an adviser in the Humanities Academic Services Center . T he Slavic Languages and Literatures Department does not offer any online majors. To learn more about applying to the University of Washington as an incoming student, please see information for first-year students , transfer students , or postbaccalaureate students .
University of Washington students in good academic standing may declare the major at any time by meeting with an adviser in the Humanities Academic Services Center . The Slavic Languages and Literatures Department does not offer any online majors. To learn more about applying to the University of Washington as an incoming student, please see information for first-year students , transfer students , or postbaccalaureate students .
Upcoming Courses
Upon entry to or departure from the Department, to obtain a signature to change majors.
Upon request by the student adviser or a faculty member. The Department wants to help our students do well in the program, and we may, therefore, request an appointment to discuss performance.
User account menu
UW-Ljubljana Faculty Exchange
Washington
You are here
