Owner: uw-seattle-food-systems-nutrition-and-health
Source: https://foodsystems.uw.edu/undergraduate/foodsystems/requirements/
Title: Food Systems Major Requirements | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health

-->
( GCPD students) Complete a national background check and complete the ServSafe Food Protection Manager Certification prior to enrollment.
(International students) Admitted international students requesting an F-1 or J-1 student visa must meet the UW&#8217;s financial ability requirement. Applicants should not mail financial ability documents or bank statements to FSNH during the admissions process. Individuals who are admitted to the program and accept their offers will be given further instructions. Financial ability requirement information is available on the UW Graduate School website.
(Non-native English speakers) Fulfill the UW Graduate School&#8217;s English Language Proficiency (ELP) requirements .
[Supplemental official source] Curriculum
[Supplemental official source] Eligibility Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Interdisciplinary Breadth Courses
[Supplemental official source] Prerequisites
[Supplemental official source] Requirements
*Course has one or more prerequisites.
*Note: A number of institutions divide this content into two or more parts (such as “Anatomy and Physiology 1 & 2”). If this is the case at your college or university, the expectation is that you complete both parts at the same school.
*Note: Detailed information outlining the above requirements will be provided at the time of admission.
*Note: In order to be eligible to apply for autumn quarter 2026 entry, applicants must have earned their bachelor&#8217;s degrees by the end of that summer. Applicants do not need to have their bachelor&#8217;s degrees prior to application.
*Note: This course must be completed by the end of the term of application to be eligible for admission the following autumn.
*Note: To be considered, a biochemistry course must - at minimum - include general chemistry as a prerequisite. A combination Organic Chemistry/Biochemistry course will not satisfy this requirement.
&copy; 2026 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
<!--
<svg version="1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
1
10
10 credits each quarter
10 credits from among courses that represent the breadth of areas that influence food systems:
10 credits from courses that represent the breadth of areas that influence food systems. Choose from:
10 per quarter
2
22
27
3
30 credits , with cumulative 2.0 GPA.
311 and 330D Raitt Conference Rooms
4
4-5 credits of statistics. Choose from:
4-8
5
5 credits of biology. Choose from:
5 credits of chemistry. Choose from:
5 credits of economics, choose from:
5 credits of Economics. Choose from:
5 credits of qualitative methods. Choose from:
6
7
8
9
A bachelor&#8217;s degree* or higher in any discipline (must be equivalent to a baccalaureate degree from a regionally accredited U.S. institution ). For details about degree equivalences, please refer to the UW Graduate School&#8217;s minimum requirements .
A cumulative GPA of 3.0 or greater for the final 90 quarter credits or 60 semester hours completed. Applicants with a GPA below 3.0 may still be considered for admission if their overall application has exceptional strengths (applicants with a lower GPA are strongly encouraged to provide additional information in the Extenuating Circumstances portion of their applications) .
A general nutrition course that covers the science of human nutrition, including nutrients, nutritional needs across the lifespan, health behaviors, and prevention of chronic disease.
About
Accelerated General Chemistry (6)
Accessibility
Accreditation & Affiliations
ACCTG 219
Acquaints students with microorganisms and their activities including microbial cell structure and function, metabolism, and the role of microorganisms in disease. Lab not required.
Acquiring skills in research methods
Additional 500-level NUTR credits
Additional Prerequisites for the GCPD
Additionally, the FSNH MPH program is a member of the Association of Graduate Programs in Public Health Nutrition which aims to promote excellence in graduate education for public health nutritionists who will design and manage population-based community nutrition programs and services.
Additionally, the program seeks to meet the substantial state, regional and national need for doctorally-prepared faculty in schools or departments of nutrition and the health sciences and for leadership positions in agencies in which PhD-level nutrition researchers study the relationships between nutrition and health.
Admitted students who accept their offers* must do the following:
Advanced Placement (AP) Statistics (5)
Advising
AES 150
AES 151
All Food System, Nutrition, and Health Program (FSNH) graduate degree applicants must meet the following minimum requirements:
All graduate students complete either a practice-based capstone with mentorship from a faculty instructor and a community partner or a research-based thesis under the direction of a faculty thesis chair and committee. The curriculum above presumes you will be completing NUTR 596 Nutrition Practice Capstone as your culminating experience requirement. Decisions to pursue the capstone or thesis are typically made in winter and spring of year 1.
All MPH
All MS
All other prerequisites may be in progress or planned at the time of application but must be completed prior to enrollment.
Alumni
Analytic Skills for Public Health
Analytic Skills for Public Health II
Andrea Litzow
ANTH 210
ANTH 211
ANTH 215
ANTH 361
ANTH/AES/ENVIR 211
Anthropology of Food (5)
AP/IB scores may be accepted if an institution has awarded college-level credit appearing on an applicant&#8217;s official transcript.
APN 780: Food and Nutrition Operations Management (University of New England Online)
Applicants are discouraged from applying if they are missing a significant number of prerequisite courses.
Applicants to the Graduate Coordinated Program in Dietetics (GCPD) must also complete the following coursework:
Applicants who have completed a Didactic Program in Dietetics (DPD) and received a Verification Statement from the Accreditation Council for Education in Nutrition and Dietetics (ACEND) have satisfied the GCPD prerequisite requirements.
Applicants with incomplete prerequisite coursework at the time of application will be reviewed on an individual basis and other merits of their application will be carefully considered. In this case, the Prerequisite Information section of the application should clearly detail how the remaining classes will be completed.
Apply
Apply appropriate methodologies to a research question.
Apply appropriate public health frameworks and methodologies to address a public health nutrition problem.
Apply evidence-based approaches to improve diet quality and nutritional status.
Apply knowledge of human nutrient requirements in relation to genetics, metabolic pathways, and physiological function across the life course.
Apply knowledge of human nutrient requirements in relation to metabolism, physiology, and pathophysiology across the life course.
Appraise how nutritional factors across the lifespan are linked to non-communicable diseases (NCD) and quality of life.
Appraise how nutritional factors across the lifespan are linked to non-communicable diseases (NCD).
Approved interdisciplinary breadth courses (pdf)
Approved list of courses that fulfill Interdisciplinary Breadth course requirements for the Food Systems, Health, and Nutrition Major. The Food Systems major requires 15 credits of interdisciplinary breadth courses.
Approved upper-division course electives (pdf)
As a PhD student, you first undertake coursework covering the fundamental areas of study. Selected from among core faculty, your adviser monitors your progress and assists you in mapping out your plan of study beyond the core knowledge areas. During this time, you will choose a dissertation chair and select a research topic that coincides with their interests. A general and a final examination are also required to complete the degree.
As earned through Advanced Placement testing
Assess nutritional status of individuals and groups.
ATM S 100
ATM S 101
ATM S 111
ATM S 211
ATMS 111
ATMS 211
Autumn 2024
B E 220
BIOC 405: Introduction to Biochemistry AND BIOC 406: Introduction to Biochemistry (UW)
Biochemistry - 2 quarters or 1 semester
Biochemistry (2 quarters or 1 semester)
BIOL 1020: Microbiology Lecture (University of New England Online)
BIOL 108: Human Biology (Bellevue College)
BIOL 118
BIOL 118: Survey of Physiology (UW)
BIOL 161/162
BIOL 180
BIOL-40367: Medical Microbiology (UC San Diego Extended Studies, online)
BIOST
BIOST 310
BIOST 511
Biostatistics (500-level)
Biostatistics for the Health Sciences (4)
Body Weight and Size Inclusivity: Clinical, Behavioral, and Societal Perspectives (5)
Both of the following courses:
Brand &#038; Templates
Briefs
Business, Economics, & Marketing: advertising, business, communication, consumers, distribution, economics, entrepreneurship, food production, informatics, law, leadership, marketing, retail
Calendar
Campus Safety
Capstone
Careers
Carmela Stewart
Case Study: Toddler with Limited Food Acceptance Complicated by Other Factors
Center for Public Health Nutrition
Centers &#038; Affiliations
CEP 200
CHEF 1101 (CRN: 30531): Principles of Food Science Lab AND CHEF 1201-501 (CRN: 30690): Principles of Food Science Lecture (Stephen F. Austin State University, online)
CHEM 1010: General Chemistry I Lecture (University of New England Online)
CHEM 1020: Organic Chemistry I Lecture (University of New England Online)
CHEM 1050: Biochemistry (University of New England Online)
CHEM 120
CHEM 142
CHEM 142: General Chemistry (UW)
CHEM 143
CHEM 145
CHEM 223: Organic Chemistry or CHEM 237: Organic Chemistry (UW)
CHEM 405: Biochemistry I AND CHEM 406: Biochemistry II (Bellevue College)
CHEM X18: Introduction to Organic Chemistry I (UC Berkeley Extension, online)
CHEM X19A: General Chemistry I (UC Berkeley Extension, online)
CHEM-40010: Organic Chemistry I (UC San Diego Extended Studies, online)
CHEM& 161: General Chemistry (Bellevue College)
CHEM& 161: General Chemistry w/ Lab I (Seattle Central College)
CHEM& 241: Organic Chemistry (Seattle Central College)
CHEM& 261: Organic Chemistry (Bellevue College)
Chenell Coppock
Cities, Health, and Well-Being (3)
Climate and Climate Change (5)
Climate Governance: How Individuals, Communities, NGOs, Firms, and Governments Can Solve the Climate Crisis (5)
Climate-Friendly Dining at the University of Washington
Climate, Justice, and Energy Solutions (5)
Clinical
Close Menu
COM 220
COM 234
COM 289
Committees
Communicating about Health: Current Issues and Perspectives (3)
Communication, Power, and Difference (5)
Completing MPH with RDN
Completing MS with RDN
Completing prerequisite coursework is critical to success in the program as it helps students establish a solid foundation and academic basis in order to complete the FSNH curriculum. The FSNH admissions committee will follow these general guidelines/parameters:
Computer Programming I (4)
Computer Programming II (5)
Computer Programming II* (5)
Connect with us:
Construct testable hypotheses, develop appropriate study designs, and conduct research, which will significantly expand knowledge of nutritional sciences;
Contact
Contact Us
Contacts
Core
Core Requirements (6 credits)
Costs
Costs &#038; Funding
Course
Course Content
Course Listings
Course requirements listed on this page apply to students entering the Master of Public Health (MPH) or MPH with RDN training in autumn 2024. Refer to curriculum archives if you entered the program in a previous year.
Course requirements listed on this page apply to students entering the MS program, or the MS and RDN training programs beginning autumn 2024. Refer to the curriculum archives if you entered the program in an earlier year.
Course/Detail
Courses
Courses and timing are subject to change.
Covers the scientific principles behind food composition, processing, preparation, safety, quality and culinary techniques with emphasis on sensory evaluation. Lab required.
Credits
Credits Not Tied to a Specific Quarter
Credits Not Tied to Specific Quarter
Critique public health practice decisions and nutrition policy development.
CSE 142
CSE 143
Culinary Nutrition Science (3)
Culminating Project
Curriculum
Daniel Y Queyquep
Declare the Major
Decreasing Food Waste at the City of Seattle Summer Meal Service Program
Degree Competencies
Describe how individuals are impacted by US food and public health nutrition systems.
Describe the basic components and determinants of the US food and nutrition systems.
Determinants of Health
Develop an informed position on a nutrition-related topic.
Develop and prepare proposals for procuring research funding.
Develop and provide instruction in a higher education academic setting, demonstrating use of evidence-based pedagogical principals.
Developing timely and original hypotheses in nutritional sciences
Diet in Health and Disease (3)
Disaster Management, Risk Reduction and Health (5)
Disseminate research findings through oral presentations and peer reviewed journals.
Dissertation: 27 credits
Doctor of Philosophy
Doctoral Dissertation
Early Care & Education
Early Learning STARS Training
Eco-Regional School Gardener’s Almanac for the PNW
ECON 200
ECON 201
Economics of Fisheries and Oceans (5)
Editorial Standards
Elective Coursework (20 credits)
Electives
Electives and Concentrations
Elements of Statistical Methods (5)
Eligibility Requirements
Eligibility Requirements | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Emeritus
ENV H 111
ENV H 306
ENV H 441
ENVIR 100
ENVIR 110
ENVIR 239
ENVIR 240
ENVIR 280
ENVIR 301
Environment & Sustainability: agriculture, agroecology, built environment, climate change, environment, global food security, GIS, hunger, urban food systems, sustainability
Environmental Ethics (5)
Environmental Justice (5)
EPI
EPI 221
EPI 320
EPI 511
Epidemiology (EPI 511 or EPI 512 and EPI 513)
Equity &#038; Inclusion
ESRM 100
ESRM 210
ESRM 235
ESS 101
ESS 105
Essentials of Accounting (4)
Example Courses
Example Coursework
Exception: A general nutrition course must be completed by the end of the term of application. (For example, students applying by the December 1, 2025, deadline are expected to complete their general nutrition prerequisite by the end of the autumn 2025 term.)
Expand All
Expanding the Registered Dietitian’s Role in Eating Disorder Relapse Prevention
Expansion of Nutrition Education Resources for Substance-Using Pregnant People
Experiential Learning
Explain, critique, and apply the process of public health practice and nutrition policy development.
Exploration of Multisensory Dining (3)
Exploration of Multisensory Dining* (3)
Explore Food at UW
Exploring Environment and Health Connections (3)
Faculty
FAQ
Fernanda Nunes
Fieldwork
Fieldwork in Public Health Nutrition
Find procedures, policies, forms and more resources for completing the Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health major in the Current Students section.
FISH 230
FND 446 AND FND 446L: Food Service Systems Management (University of Northern Colorado, online)
Food & Nutrition Policy
Food Access
Food and Culinary Science (3)
Food and Society
Food and Society: Exploring Eating Behaviors in a Social, Environmental, and Policy Context
Food Protection (3)
Food Safety and Health (3)
Food Science - 1 quarter or semester
Food Science (with lab)
Food Seminar (1)
Food System Sustainability and Resilience (3)
Food Systems & Nutrition
Food Systems Capstone (6)
Food Systems Core - 31 credits
Food Systems Major
Food Systems Major FAQ
Food Systems Major Requirements
Food Systems Major Requirements | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Food Systems Modeling & Analysis (5)
Food Systems Seminar
Food Systems Students
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Graduate Programs Information Sheet (PDF)
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Graduate Study Apply Eligibility Requirements
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Graduate Study Apply Prerequisite Information
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Graduate Study Doctor of Philosophy PhD Curriculum
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Graduate Study Master of Public Health MPH Curriculum
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Graduate Study Master of Science MS Curriculum
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Information Sheet (PDF)
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Seminar (1)
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Food Systems Major Requirements
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Major Food Systems Major Requirements Interdisciplinary Breadth Courses
Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Undergraduate Study Nutrition Minor Nutrition Minor Requirements
Food Systems: Harvest to Health (5)
Food Systems: Individual to Population Health (5)
Foundations of Dietetics
Foundations of Dietetics (NUTR 558, 1 credit)
Foundations of Public Health
Foundations of Social Inquiry (5)
FSNH requires a minimum score of 4.5 (92 for tests taken before Jan 21, 2026) on the TOEFL, 7.0 on the IELTS, or 125 on Duolingo.
G H 101
G H 101/JSIS B/GEOG 180
G H 220
G H/ENV H 220
Gaining an advanced understanding of nutrition and metabolism, and related biological, biochemical, molecular, and behavioral sciences
GCPD applicants required to pass an English language proficiency exam must receive either a minimum score of 5.0 (26 for tests taken before Jan 21, 2026) on the TOEFL speaking section or a score of 7.0 or higher on the IELTS speaking section. Duolingo scores are not accepted. This policy aligns with the UW Graduate School’s requirements for enrolled, non-native English speakers applying for TA positions (see Policy 5.2 for more information).
GCPD courses satisfy the elective credits required for the MPH degree.
GCPD courses satisfy the elective credits required for the MS degree.
GCPD only
GCPD Only
GCPD Practice Experience
GCPD Requirements
GCPD student complete the required MPH Practicum, NUTR 595, by way of the NUTR 561 Practice Experience.
General Chemistry
General Chemistry - 1 quarter or semester
General Chemistry (5)
General Nutrition (this course must be completed—with transcript in-hand—by December 31, 2025, to be eligible for autumn 2026 admission)
GEOG 123
GEOG 208
GEOG 271
GEOG 272
GEOG 280
GEOG 371
GEOG 380
GEOG 425
Geographical Patterns of Health and Disease (5)
Geographies of Environmental Justice (5)
Geography of Food and Eating (5)
Geography of the World Economy: Regional Fortunes and the Rise of Global Markets (5)
Giving
Global Environmental Change and Public Health (3)
Global Health Histories: Colonial Medicine, Public Health, and International Health in the Global South (5)
Global Nutrition
Global Nutrition: Challenges and Opportunities (3)
Global Warming: Understanding the Issues (5)
Graduate
Graduate Student Resources
Graduate Study
Graduation Events
Greeshma Mallya
GWSS 244
Health and Sustainability (3)
History
Home
Honors General Chemistry (5)
HSERV 100
HSERV 204
HSERV 579
HSTAA 231
HSTAA/ENVIR 221
HSTCMP 247
Identities, Cultures, and Power Across American Ethnic Groups (5)
If completing the MPH with RDN training , you will take an additional 30 credits of RDN practice experience .
If completing the MS with the Graduate Coordinated Program in Dietetics (GCPD; RDN training program), you will take an additional 30 credits RDN practice experience .
Implementing Public Health Interventions
In the News
In-Justice for All: Intersection of Race, Ethnicity, Class, and Gender in the United States (5)
Includes management and business theories and principles required to deliver programs and services. Course includes content related to quality management of food and nutrition services, budgeting, and human resources.
Incoming Graduate Student Information
Indigenous Feminisms (5)
Interdisciplinary
Interdisciplinary Breadth - 15 credits
Interdisciplinary Breadth Courses
Interdisciplinary Breadth Courses | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Intranet
Introduction to American Politics (5)
Introduction to Community and Environmental Planning (5)
Introduction to Comparative Politics (5)
Introduction to Environmental Anthropology (5)
Introduction to Environmental Economics (5)
Introduction to Environmental Science (5)
Introduction to Environmental Studies (5)
Introduction to Epidemiology
Introduction to Epidemiology (4)
Introduction to Food and the Environment (5)
Introduction to Foods (5)
Introduction to Geology & Societal Impacts (5)
Introduction to Geology and Societal Impacts (5)
Introduction to Global Health: Disparities, Determinants, Policies, and Outcomes (5)
Introduction to Globalization (5)
Introduction to Labor Studies (5)
Introduction to Macroeconomics (5)
Introduction to Macroeconomics* (5)
Introduction to Medical Anthropology and Global Health (5)
Introduction to Microeconomics (5)
Introduction to Probability and Statistics (5)
Introduction to Public Policy and Governance (5)
Introduction to Public Speaking (5)
Introduction to Racial and Ethnic Health Disparities in the United States (5)
Introduction to Statistical Methods (4)
Introduction to the Geography of Health and Healthcare (5)
Introduction to Urbanization: Planning and Designing Alternative Urban Futures (5)
Introductory Biology (5)
Introductory psychology course covering major areas of psychological science including human social behavior, personality, psychological disorders and treatment, learning, human development, biological influences, and research methods.
Introductory Soils (5)
Investigating the relationships between diet and disease
Issues of Global Justice (5)
Jobs
Jordyn Fantuzzi
Kain Ip
Katie McConaughy
Learn more about MPH practicum
Learning Competencies for the BA in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Learning objectives
Listening to Schools: Insights to Inform the Development of a Toolkit for Implementing the 20-Minute Lunch Duration Rule in Washington State Elementary Schools
Management of Nutrition Services
Management of Nutrition Services - 1 quarter or semester
Master of Public Health
Master of Public Health in Public Health Nutrition &#8211; Application and Materials
Master of Science
Master of Science (MS) curriculum involves coursework in biostatistics, epidemiology, and nutritional sciences, and culminates in a capstone project or thesis.
Master of Science in Nutritional Sciences &#8211; Application and Materials
Master's Practicum
Master's Thesis
Master&#8217;s Capstone
Master&#8217;s Thesis
Maternal and Child Health-a Population Health Approach (5)
Maternal and Pediatric Nutrition
MCELLBI X105: Introductory Biochemistry (UC Berkeley Extension, online)
MCELLBI X134: Medical Microbiology (UC Berkeley Extension, online)
MCELLBI X444: Human Nutrition | (UC Berkeley Extension, online)
MCELLBI XBW32: Introduction to Human Physiology (UC Berkeley Extension, online)
Medical Biometry
Meet the competencies established by the School of Public Health and the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH) for all SPH students.
Meet the core competencies established by the Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health Program (FSNH) for all FSNH students:
Meetings &#038; Events – Spaces and Planning Resources
Menu
Microbiology
Microbiology - 1 quarter or semester
MICROM 301: General Microbiology (UW)
Minimum cumulative 2.0 GPA is needed for courses applied toward the minor.
Minimum of 13 credits must be taken from the School of Public Health (NUTR, ENV H, or EPI courses).
Minimum of 15 credits applied to the minor must be completed in residence through the University of Washington.
Minimum of 15 credits applied to the minor must be taken outside of the student’s major requirements.
Minimum of 15 credits must be completed in 300- and 400-level courses.
Mission &#038; Goals
MNT Concentration Projects
More Information
More profiles
More projects
MPH Application and Materials
MPH Curriculum
MPH Curriculum | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
MPH Fieldwork
MPH Practicum
MPH Students
MPH students complete either a practice-based capstone with mentorship from a faculty adviser and a community partner or a research-based thesis under the direction of a faculty thesis chair and committee.
MPH students must complete a minimum 63 credits.
MS Application and Materials
MS Curriculum
MS Curriculum | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
MS Students
MS students complete either a practice-based capstone with mentorship from a faculty adviser and a community partner or a research-based thesis under the direction of a faculty thesis chair and committee.
MS students must complete a minimum 50 credits.
My UW
Name
Narrative course evaluations may be accepted if it is the school&#8217;s standard mode of assessment.
Natural History of the Puget Sound Region (5)
News
News &#038; Events
NHM 253: Food Science (University of Alabama Online)
Nikki Zielinski
NMETH
Non-GCPD
Non-numeric passing grades (i.e., Credit, Satisfactory) earned during an emergency or Extenuating Circumstances term may be accepted.
Note: It is not unusual for GCPD applicants to take the food science (with lab) and management of nutrition services courses after being admitted to the program but prior to matriculation autumn quarter.
Note: Several of the prerequisite courses, particularly general chemistry and organic chemistry, are offered in a series. It may be necessary, therefore, to take multiple classes in order to complete all of FSNH&#8217;s required courses. We recommend you identify the biochemistry course you wish to take and then work backward to establish your prerequisite course plan. To be considered, a biochemistry course must &#8211; at minimum &#8211; require general chemistry as a prerequisite.
Note: We are accepting applications to our PhD program only from students currently enrolled in our master’s programs. Suspending admissions to outside applicants allows us the opportunity to review and revise our curriculum and improve student opportunities.
Note: You are welcome to email gcpd@uw.edu to request contact information for these specific courses.
Notes
NSC 351R AND NSC 351L: Fundamentals of Food Science (University of Arizona, online)
NTR 220: Principles of Foods (Cedar Crest College, online)
NTR 301: Management in Dietetics (Cedar Crest College, online)
NTRN 1010: Principles of Human Nutrition | (University of New England Online)
NURS 211
NURS 215
NUTR 1213: Food Science (Lipscomb University, online; May term only - email gcpd@uw.edu for more information)
NUTR 141
NUTR 200
NUTR 200: Nutrition for Today (UW)
NUTR 202
NUTR 205: Food Science (Southern Illinois Univ. Edwardsville, online)
NUTR 241
NUTR 302
NUTR 303
NUTR 310
NUTR 3100: Experimental Foods (Rutgers University, online)
NUTR 312
NUTR 341
NUTR 390
NUTR 400
NUTR 402
NUTR 405
NUTR 406
NUTR 408: Food Service Management I (Southern Illinois Univ. Edwardsville, online)
NUTR 411
NUTR 412
NUTR 413
NUTR 415
NUTR 420
NUTR 441
NUTR 441: Food & Culinary Science (UW Professional & Continuing Education, online)
NUTR 446
NUTR 465/ BIO A 465
NUTR 490
NUTR 493
NUTR 500
NUTR 512
NUTR 513
NUTR 514
NUTR 520
NUTR 521
NUTR 526
NUTR 531
NUTR 532
NUTR 536
NUTR 558
NUTR 559
NUTR 560
NUTR 561
NUTR 562
NUTR 563
NUTR 595
NUTR 596
NUTR 700
NUTR 800
NUTR SCI 657: Management in Dietetics (University of Wisconsin Online)
NUTR& 101: Nutrition (North Seattle College)
Nutrition - 1 quarter or semester
Nutrition & Health Equity: dietary guidelines, disease prevention, exercise, environmental health, equity, food safety, global health, nutrition, public health
Nutrition and Chronic Disease
Nutrition and Metabolism I
Nutrition and Metabolism II
Nutrition and the Life Course (4)
Nutrition Communication with the Nutrition Source
Nutrition Education Principles & Practice
Nutrition Education Principles & Practice (NUTR 536, 2 credits)
Nutrition for Today (5)
Nutrition in Acute Care
Nutrition in Acute Care (NUTR 563, 4 credits)
Nutrition Minor
Nutrition Minor FAQ
Nutrition Minor Information Sheet (PDF)
Nutrition Minor Requirements
Nutrition Minor Requirements | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Nutrition Minor Students
Nutrition Practice Capstone
Nutritional Anthropology (3)
Nutritional Counseling for Chronic Disease
Nutritional Counseling for Chronic Disease (NUTR 560, 2 credits)
OCEAN 101
OCEAN 102
Oceanography of the Pacific Northwest (5)
Opportunities
Optional
Organic Chemistry
Organic Chemistry - 1 quarter or semester
Orientation to Clinical Dietetics (NUTR 559, 3 credits)
Orientation to Clinical Dietetics Practice
Other Academic Requirements
Other Requirements: 43-47 credits
Other Sciences to address specific interests
Our Faculty
Our Mission
Our Work
Overview
Paola Maria Bregni Ibarra
Partners
Pay a $250 non-refundable deposit to the UW Graduate School.
People
Personal and Public Health (3)
PH Concentration Projects
PhD Curriculum
PhD Curriculum | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
PhD Dissertation
PhD students enrolled in RDN training through the GCPD will also need to complete the following courses:
PHI 511
PHI 512
PHI 513
PHI 514
PHI 515
PHI 516
PHIL 243
PHIL/ENVIR 243
PHIL/ETHICS/POL S 207
PHSL 1010: Physiology Lecture and Lab (University of New England Online)
Physical Activity in Health and Disease (3)
Physiology
Physiology - 1 quarter or semester
POL S 202
POL S 204
POL S/HSTCMP 249/SOC 266
Post-admission requirements
Power, Oppression, and Social Justice in Health and Healthcare (5)
Practice Experience
Practice Experience (NUTR 561, 30 credits)
Practicum
Prerequisite
Prerequisite courses must be completed at a regionally accredited institution for academic credit and an letter/numeric grade, with the following exceptions:
Prerequisite Coursework
Prerequisite Coursework Requirements
Prerequisite coursework should be current within the last 10 years. If the following classes were completed outside of that range, they will need to be retaken: general nutrition, biochemistry, physiology, microbiology (GCPD), management of nutrition services (GCPD) and food science with lab (GCPD).
Prerequisite Guidelines
Prerequisite Information
Prerequisite Information | Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health
Prerequisite: BIO A 201
Prerequisite: either BIOL 118 or BIOL 220
Prerequisite: either CHEM 120, CHEM 142, MICROM 301, or MICROM 410
Prerequisite: either NUTR 141 or NUTR 241
Prerequisite: either NUTR 200 or NUTR 300
Prerequisite: none
Prerequisite: None
Prerequisite: NUTR 200
Prerequisite: NUTR 200; cannot be taken for credit if credit earned in NUTR 441
Prerequisite: NUTR 200; either CHEM 120 or CHEM 142; and either CHEM 220 or CHEM 237
Prerequisite: NUTR 302
Prerequisite: one 200-level ANTH course
Prerequisites
Prerequisites for the MPH and MS Programs
Prerequisites may be in-progress or projected at the time of application but must be completed prior to matriculation in autumn quarter.
Presentations
Principles of Chemistry I (5)
Privacy
Profiles
Program Overview
PSYCH 101: Introduction to Psychology (UW)
Psychology
Psychology - 1 quarter or semester
PSYO 1010: Introduction to Psychology (University of New England Online)
Public Debate (5)
Public Health Concentration Projects
Public Health Nutrition
Public Health Practice
PUBPOL 201
Q SCI 381
QMETH 201
Qualitative Methodology in Geography (5)
Questions about a prerequisite? Email gradnutr@uw.edu with the course abbreviation and title in question and a link to the school’s online course catalog.
Race And American History (5)
RDN Training
Read about fieldwork
Recent Capstone Projects
Recent MPH Student Work
Recent MS Student Work
Recent PhD Student Work
Recognize the means by which social inequities and racism, generated by power and privilege, undermine nutritional health.
Refer to this list when identifying courses to satisfy our programs&#8217; prerequisites. Examples of courses available at the University of Washington and other schools are provided as reference. Comparable courses may be taken from other accredited colleges or universities , including community colleges.
Reports
Required Nutrition Courses: 32 credits
Requirement
Requirements
Requirements listed below apply to students entering the PhD program beginning in autumn 2018 .
Research
Research &#038; Practice
Research Methods (from EPI 517, EPI 519, EPI 548, EPI 549)
Research Methods & Technologies - 9-10 credits
Research Methods in Environmental Studies (5)
Research Methods in Food Systems, Nutrition, and Health (5)
Resources
Rules Docket
Sample course plan (pdf)
Sample transfer course plan (pdf)
School of Public Health
School of Public Health | University of Washington
Science Literacy - 10 credits
Science, Evidence and Health: Mastering Health Information and Personal Health Technologies (4/5)
Search for:
See our Prerequisite Guidelines for details.
See past student projects
See past student projects .
See UW Graduate School Policy 3.2 for other ways to satisfy the ELP requirement.
Seminar
Should cover atomic nature of matter, stoichiometry, acids and bases, chemical equilibrium, and gas laws. Lab not required.
Should cover human physiology, metabolism and energetics, structure and function of biomolecules, and cell and organ structure and function. Lab not required.
Should include introduction to structure, nomenclature, properties, and reactions of the main functional families of organic compounds. Stereochemistry and spectroscopy. Lab not required.
Should provide a survey of basic principles of biochemistry and molecular biology, emphasizing broad understanding of chemical events in living systems in terms of metabolism and structure-function relationships of biologically important molecules. Lab not required.
Skip to main content
SMEA/ENVIR 201
SMEA/ENVIR/JSIS B 103
SOC 110
SOC 230
SOC 300
Social & Economic Equity: communication, culture, determinants of health, geography, empowerment, inequality, intersectionality, justice, policy, poverty, society
Social Determinants of Health
Society and the Oceans (5)
Special Topics in Nutritional Sciences (1-5)
SPH Soulcatcher
Sports Nutrition (3)
Sports Nutrition for Adolescents: Evidence-Based Guidance on Nutrient Timing and Vegetarian Diets
Staff
Staff Contacts
STAT 220
STAT 221
STAT 290
STAT 311
Statistical Concepts and Methods for the Social Sciences (5)
Statistical Reasoning (5)
Stories
Structural Racism and Public Health
Student Projects
Students
Students declare the minor with their major adviser.
Students must declare a major and have completed a minimum of 45 credits before declaring the minor.
Students who have taken coursework at an institution within the state of Washington with a UW transfer agreement (community colleges) may use the UW Equivalency Guide to find classes equivalent to the recommended UW Example Coursework .
Study/Discipline
Submit official transcripts to both the UW Graduate School and FSNH.
Suggested first- and second-year courses: biology, chemistry, composition or writing, economics, nutrition, statistics, and courses that satisfy the Interdisciplinary Breadth requirement.
Summer Godfrey
Support Us
Survey of Physiology (5, preferred)
Survey of Sociology (5)
Sustainability: Personal Choices, Broad Impacts (3-5)
Sustainability: Personal Choices, Broad Impacts (5)
Sustainable Food Systems for Population Health
Sustainable Food Systems in Italy (5)
Synthesize human nutrition research for application to health.
Terms
The Changing Oceans (5)
The Earth: Its Processes and Hazards (5)
The following courses must be completed prior to beginning either the MPH or MS in Food System, Nutrition, and Health (FSNH):
The Impact of Low-Fat and Full-­Fat Dairy Consumption on Glucose Homeostasis
The Impact of Low-Fat and Full-Fat Dairy Consumption on Metabolic Health: A Randomized Dietary Intervention Trial
The list of approved electives (pdf) includes information about how to check registration restrictions for these courses; limitations on the number of food systems related internship, study abroad, service learning, and research credits that can be applied towards this requirement; and the course substitution process.
The Master of Public Health (MPH) in Public Health Nutrition curriculum involves public health coursework, practicum , fieldwork , and culminates in a capstone project or thesis.
The minor requires a total of 26 credits. You must take enough elective credits that when combined with the credits from your core requirements, you have a minimum of 26 total credits.
The Nutrition Minor requires a total of 26 credits. Students follow the requirements that are in place at the time they declare the minor.
The PhD program is designed to assist you in:
The required general nutrition course must be completed—with transcript in-hand—by December 31, 2025, to be eligible for autumn 2026 admission.
The timing of PhD student course and internship requirements will be coordinated on a case-by-case basis to accommodate their dissertation research projects.
The Urban Farm (5)
There are additional coursework requirements for Graduate Coordinated Program in Dietetics (GCPD) applicants.
These foundational competencies include areas such as evidence-based approaches to public health, planning and management to promote health, policy, leadership, and systems thinking.
Through the MPH coursework and hands-on fieldwork and practicum experiences , you’ll achieve competencies established for all MPH graduates by the Council on Education for Public Health, the accrediting body for schools and programs of public health.
Timeline
Traineeships
Trainings
Undergo a Washington state background check and complete a number of other compliance items, including satisfactory participation in the Health Sciences Immunization Program (HSIP).
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Capstone
Undergraduate Internship
Undergraduate Student Resources
Undergraduate Study
United States Food Systems Policy
United States Food Systems Policy (5)
University of Washington
University of Washington -->
University of Washington Food Systems Working Group: Support for the Sustainability Action Plan
Upon satisfactory completion of a Doctor of Philosophy in Nutritional Sciences, graduates will be able to:
Upon satisfactory completion of a Master of Public Health (MPH) in Public Health Nutrition, graduates will be able to:
Upon satisfactory completion of the Master of Science in Nutritional Sciences, graduates will be able to:
Upper-Division Course Electives - 20 credits
URBDP 200
US Environmental History: Ecology, Culture, Justice (5)
US Food Systems Policy (5) Writing
Use these tables in conjunction with your official degree audit and guidance from NSP Student and Academic Services.
UW Food Systems Network
VALUES 207
Various
View requirements from previous academic years.
View the Prerequisite Guidelines and Example Coursework .
Weather (5)
width="19px" height="51px" viewBox="0 0 18.776 51.062" enable-background="new 0 0 18.776 51.062" xml:space="preserve" focusable="false">
Word List and Terms
World Hunger and Agricultural Development (5)
Year 1 Autumn (14 credits)
Year 1 Autumn (17 credits)
Year 1 Spring (10-12 credits)
Year 1 Spring (14-16 credits)
Year 1 Winter (13-16 credits)
Year 1 Winter (9-12 credits)
Year 2 Autumn (7-14 credits)
Year 2 Autumn (8-15 credits)
Year 2 Winter/Spring/Summer – GCPD Only (30 credits)
Year 2 Winter/Spring/Summer (30 credits)
You must complete all major requirements outlined on this page and the general education requirements for the School of Public Health.
You will choose a minimum of 20 credits of 300- and 400-level courses organized around 4 concentrations as electives. Concentrations, which do not appear on your transcript, allow you to focus electives on broad areas that impact these systems. These concentrations are:
You’ll work with our practicum faculty adviser to be matched with a practicum site that incorporates your special interests, desired professional skills set, and MPH core competencies.
You&#8217;ll complete one fieldwork experience by enrolling in NUTR 532.
