Owner: uw-seattle-applied-and-computational-mathematical-sciences
Source: https://www.washington.edu/students/gencat/program/S/AppliedandComputationalMathSciences-994.html
Title: 

Home
Students
Parents
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
College of Arts and Sciences
Applied and Computational Math Sciences
C36 Padelford Hall
206-543-6830
Website
advising@math.washington.edu
Mathematics is the common language of modern science, engineering, and business. Techniques of mathematical modeling and data analysis are key instruments in the tool kit of modern practitioners and researchers in a wide array of disciplines. ACMS is an interdisciplinary program in the mathematical sciences that provides sound training in mathematical modeling, scientific computation, mathematical reasoning, and statistical analysis. The program is jointly administered by the Departments of Applied Mathematics, Computer Science and Engineering, Mathematics, and Statistics, offering students access to their combined resources. An ACMS major is an excellent stepping stone to a career in engineering and the physical, life, and management sciences.
Undergraduate Programs
Program of Study: Major: Applied and Computational Mathematical Sciences
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Data Science and Statistics
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Discrete Mathematics and Algorithms
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Mathematical Economics and Quantitative Finance
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Scientific Computing and Numerical Analysis
Undergraduate Program
Applied and Computational Math Sciences
C36 Padelford Hall
206-543-6830
advising@math.washington.edu
Program of Study: Major: Applied and Computational Mathematical Sciences
Program Overview
The Applied and Computational Mathematical Sciences (ACMS) program is a multidisciplinary Bachelor of Science degree program in the College of Arts and Sciences, offered jointly by the Departments of Applied Mathematics, Computer Science and Engineering, Mathematics, and Statistics. It is designed for students interested in the application of mathematical and computational concepts and tools to problems in research or in the business world.
This program of study leads to the following credentials:
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Data Science and Statistics
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Discrete Mathematics and Algorithms
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Mathematical Economics and Quantitative Finance
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Scientific Computing and Numerical Analysis
Recommended Preparation
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126; MATH 207 or AMATH 351; MATH 208; AMATH 352; CSE 123 or CSE 143.
Admission Requirements
Admission to all programs is capacity constrained. Completion of minimum requirements described below does not guarantee admission. All applicants have the right to petition and appeal the unit's admission decision. The application and additional information are available at the department website.
Applicants are considered in two groups: Currently Enrolled UW Students and Entering Transfers.
Currently Enrolled UW Students : A portion of each year's class is admitted after matriculating to UW. Admission is capacity constrained.
Minimum Course Requirements: CSE 123 or CSE 143; MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126, MATH 208 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136); additional option credential course requirement specified below
Minimum grade requirements: Minimum 2.0 grade for each course required for admission; minimum 3.00 cumulative GPA in courses required for admission
Determining Factors: Factors considered include performance in all degree-related courses as measured by GPA, difficulty of all courses completed, frequency of incompletes or withdrawal grades, number of repeated courses, amount and type of college-level credit, relevant work and life experience, and record of honors.
When to Apply: Applications are accepted twice each year at the beginning of autumn and spring quarters. Refer to department website for deadlines.
Entering Transfers. Admission is capacity constrained.
Transfer applicants must submit a departmental application for the same quarter they submit an application to the University. Applicants must meet the following requirements:
Minimum 30 graded college credits completed by the University transfer application deadline.
Minimum Course Requirements: CSE 123 or CSE 143; MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126, MATH 208 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136); additional option credential course requirement specified below
Minimum grade requirements: Minimum 2.0 grade for each course required for admission; minimum 3.00 cumulative GPA in courses required for admission
Determining Factors: Factors considered include performance in all degree-related courses as measured by GPA, difficulty of all courses completed, frequency of incompletes or withdrawal grades, number of repeated courses, amount and type of college-level credit, relevant work and life experience, and record of honors.
When to Apply: Application deadlines: April 5 for autumn admission
Continuation Policy
All students must make satisfactory academic progress in the major. Failure to do so results in major-level academic notification, major-level warning, and major-level alerts, which can lead to dismissal from the major and being precluded from subsequently declaring the major in a future quarter. For the complete continuation policy, contact the departmental adviser or refer to the department website.
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Applied and Computational Math Sciences: Data Science and Statistics
Credential Overview
The Data Science and Statistics option credential is designed with strong statistics and applied mathematics components. The option credential incorporates coursework in mathematical modeling and scientific computation, statistical learning, probability, and data science. Students graduating with the major are well-prepared for careers in data science, technology, and government sectors, or for further graduate studies in the quantitative sciences.
Additional Admission Requirements
Option specific requirements:
Minimum 2.0 grade in MATH 394/STAT 394. Students apply directly to the Data Science and Statistics option at the time of application to the major. Refer to admission requirements specified above.
Completion Requirements
74-89 credits
Core Courses (22-29 credits):
Complete one of the following:
MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126, MATH 207 (or AMATH 351), MATH 208
MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136
AMATH 352
CSE 123 or CSE 143
Additional requirements specified below
Minimum 2.0 grade in courses applied to the major
Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major
Additional Completion Requirements
Option specific credits (52-59 credits)
Core Courses (15-16 credits):
Probability: MATH 394/STAT 394
Introductory Statistics: STAT 290 or STAT 311
Scientific computing: STAT 302 or AMATH 301
Data Programming: CSE 163
Data Science (11-14 credits):
Ethics: one of the following: STAT 303, SOC 225, or INFO 351
Database: CSE 414 or INFO 330
