Owner: uw-seattle-mathematics:pathway:math-option-change-for-current-math-majors
Source: https://math.washington.edu/ba-mathematics-standard-major-requirements-0
Title: B.A. Mathematics - Standard Major Requirements | Department of Mathematics | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Major Declaration
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
200-Level Math Lab
3 MATH courses at the 400-level; excludes MATH 420, but this course can be applied as 300-400 level elective course.
4 MATH courses at the 300 or 400-level
56 to 64 credits needed to complete the major. This information is for major planning only. For degree requirements, refer to your Degree Audit Reporting System (DARS). Meet with a Math adviser if completing MATH 334/335/336.
About
Administrative Office
Admissions
Advising & Academic Support
Advising Recommendation
advising@math.washington.edu
All Outreach Links
Alumni
Alumni Update
Annual Course Overview
AP/IB Exams : Course equivalencies earned with AP / IB exams can be used to meet the course requirements.
As a public institution, the UW is dedicated to first-time degree-seeking students. Coupled with high demand for Math degrees among undergraduates, unfortunately means Math degrees are not available for post-baccalaureate students through the UW Seattle campus. For more post-baccalaureate information , visit https://math.washington.edu/post-baccalaureate-student-information .
B.A. Mathematics - Standard Major Requirements
B.A. Mathematics - Standard Major Requirements | Department of Mathematics | University of Washington
BA Math majors requesting to switch to the BS option must first complete MATH 327 and MATH 424 with a minimum grade of 2.0 or higher; course(s) cannot be in-progress.
Box 354350
C-138 Padelford
C-36 Padelford
Calendar
College of Arts & Sciences
Complete one of the following set of courses:
Complete the following courses:
Contact Us
Continuation Policy
Core (28-36 credits)
Course Descriptions & Materials
Course Offerings and Planning
Course or Instructor Concerns
Course restrictions and minimum major requirements:
Courses & Registration
CPT – Curricular Practical Training
Current Math majors may request to switch to a different Math option by updating their graduation plan in MyPlan and submitting the online Math Major Declaration Form.
Currently Enrolled UW Seattle Students
Department Faculty
Department of Mathematics
Departmental Honors & Senior Thesis
Departmental Users
Directories
Drop-in Math Major Workshops
Early Entrance: a minimum numeric grade of 3.8 in MATH 208 and either MATH 200 or MATH 300
Emeriti Faculty
Employment
Entering Transfer Students
Faculty
Faculty Meetings
FAQs
Fax: (206) 543-0397
Fax: (206) 616-6974
Fields of Interest
For all academic inquiries, please contact:
For information about the graduation plan and submitting the declaration form, click here .
Full Directory
Give now
Graduate
Graduate Student Guide
Graduate Students
Graduation Application
Home
Honors & Awards
How to Declare
How To Declare
Husky Math Academy
If applying to UW Seattle as a transfer applicant , you can declare the Math major once you meet one of the pathway requirements above. You should take as many courses in the declaration pathways as possible. You can complete any remaining prerequisite courses at UW then declare once you meet one of the pathways above. Speak with a Math adviser before your scheduled Advising & Orientation (A&O) session to plan Math courses for your first quarter at UW so you can declare the major quickly.
If you need help getting started on creating a graduation plan, feel free to attend a drop-in workshop and chat with a Math adviser.
In Memoriam
In-Person Workshop Sessions:
Instagram
Linkedin
Main menu
Major Declaration
Major Option Electives (28 credits) - Refer to the list of course restrictions below.
Major Option Electives exclude MATH 300, 382, 397, 398, 399, 497, 498, 499, CR/NC, independent study, research, seminars, internships; can apply credits from one of the following Algebra sequences: MATH 411/412 OR MATH 402/403 .
Maps
MATH 124 (5cr) – Calculus I
MATH 125 (5cr) – Calculus II
MATH 126 (5cr) – Calculus III
MATH 134 (5cr) – Honors Calculus
MATH 135 (5cr)– Honors Calculus
MATH 136 (5cr) – Honors Calculus
MATH 200 (5cr) – Discrete Mathematics
MATH 207 (4cr) – Diff. Equations
MATH 208 (4cr) – Matrix Algebra
MATH 224 (4cr) – Advanced Multivariable
MATH 300 (4cr) – Mathematical Reasoning
Math AI Lab
Math BS guidelines
Math BS students should be taking 1-2 MATH courses every quarter regardless if they're officially a Math major or not in order to complete the degree in a timely manner.
MATH courses cannot be completed with a Satisfactory/Non-Satisfactory (S/NS) grade option.
Math Major Declaration
Math Major Declaration | Department of Mathematics | University of Washington
Math Major Study Hall
Math majors requesting to declare a different Math option must be able to reasonably complete their major and degree requirements within the University of Washington's Academic Satisfactory Progress Policy .
Math Option Change
Math Option Change for Current Math Majors
Math Research Library
Math Student Guide
Math Student Guide: math.washington.edu/math-student-guide
Math Student Services
Math Study Center
Math Tutors
Menu
Milliman Lectures
Minimum 18 credits of graded mathematics courses numbered 300 or higher taken in residence at UW Seattle.
Minimum 2.0 numerical grade in all courses presented to satisfy major requirements. Minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA in all mathematics courses at the University, including course repeats.
Minimum Requirement Pathways
Monday, MARCH 16 10:00am-11:30pm Padelford C-38, (C-wing) uw.edu/maps/?pdl
Monday, MARCH 23 10:00am-11:30pm Padelford C-38, (C-wing) uw.edu/maps/?pdl
My institution doesn't offer a mathematical proof writing course. What should I do? Math 300 is a foundational course in introductory proof writing that can help students decide if the Math major is a good fit for their academic interests and goals. The courses required for the Math degree are less computational than calculus and require proof-writing. If your institution doesn't have a Math 300 equivalent, we would encourage you to take a linear/matrix algebra course that might introduce small proofs (equivalent to UW Math 208).
MyUW
News & Events
Newsletter
No more than two MATH courses per quarter.
No more than two special topic MATH courses numbered 380 or 480.
Note: Our major requirements have been updated to require MATH 200. However, if you have taken a significant number of upper-division math courses when you declare the Mathematics major prior to autumn quarter 2026, you can email advising@math.washington.edu to substitute the requirement with a different 200-level or higher MATH course not already being used for another requirement.
OR
Outreach
Pacific Institute for the Mathematical Sciences
Pathways
People
Phone: (206) 543-1150
Phone: (206) 543-6830
Privacy
Program Overview
Programs & Courses
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Registration Information
Research
Research Opportunities
Resources
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-4350
Seminars & Other Activities
Seminars & Other Research Activities
Share
Should I repeat a math course?
SIMUW
Site Map
Skip to main content
Special Offerings (Special Topics)
Staff
Standard Entry: a minimum numeric grade of 2.0 in one of the following set of courses MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126, MATH 208 and either MATH 200 or MATH 300, OR MATH 134, 135, 136; minimum cumulative GPA of 3.20 among the courses required for admission
Stay Connected
STEP 1: Create a graduation plan in MyPlan; see guide https://math.washington.edu/graduation-plan-using-myplan
STEP 2: Complete and submit the online Math Major Declaration Form- https://forms.office.com/r/xry2Kg8kag .
Students admitted to the major WIN 2026 or after:
Students must be enrolled at UW Seattle during the first quarter of being declared a Math major.
Students requesting to declare a Math major must be able to reasonably complete their major and degree requirements within the University of Washington's Academic Satisfactory Progress Policy . Students must complete their programs once they have completed 12 academic quarters and have earned 210 credits, or 255 credits for double degree students. For more information about the Academic Satisfactory Progress policy, visit registrar.washington.edu/register/policies-procedures/ .
Students who wish to pursue the Math BS degree should be prepared to declare the degree by the end of their second year.
Support Math
Support Us
Teaching Endorsement
Terms
The Department of Mathematics has two pathways to declare: Early Entrance and Standard Entry. Courses must be completed at the time of declaration.
The Math BS degree may not be a viable option for students who would need to complete more than 2 MATH classes per quarter for multiple quarters. Students in this situation should check-in with a Math adviser to see if they have a feasible plan. The Math BA degree option may be a more viable option depending on timeline to completion.
To be eligible to register for Math major-only courses during Registration Priority I (i.e. MATH 381, 402, 407, 411, etc) , the student must submit the Math Major Declaration form two weeks before registration begins for the upcoming quarter.
To maintain good academic standing within the Department of Mathematics, students must maintain a minimum major GPA of 2.0, including course repeats, and earn a numerical grade of a 2.0 or higher in all courses that could be applied towards the Math major requirements. Courses completed with a S/NS grade cannot be used towards major requirements and thus violate this policy. Students must also complete at least one course towards the major requirements each quarter they enroll, with the exception of summer quarter.
To see the complete Department of Mathematics Continuation Policy, go to https://math.washington.edu/continuation-and-honesty-policy .
Transfer Credit Evaluations
Undergraduate
Undergraduate students who complete the courses in one of the pathways listed below will be eligible to declare a Bachelor of Science Mathematics option or Bachelor of Arts Mathematics option (Standard, Teacher Prep, Philosophy).
University of Washington
Upcoming Events
User account menu
UW Math Circle
UW Mathday
WA CTC Transfers : If you're transferring from a Washington state community or technical college, use the WA CC Equivalency Guide ( https://admit.washington.edu/apply/transfer/equivalency-guide/ ) to see what CTC courses are transferable and equivalent to UW coursework.
Washington
Washington Directed Reading Program (WDRP)
Washington Experimental Mathematics Lab (WXML)
WDRP
We typically advise students not to repeat a math course. Instead, we recommend that students move onto the next advanced-level course and focus on getting a better grade. Only if a student didn’t understand the majority of the course content, should they consider retaking a MATH course, and we strongly advise students to speak with a math advisor first. Repeating a UW MATH Course
Wednesday, MARCH 11 10:00am-11:30am
Wednesday, MARCH 18 10:00am-11:30am
Wednesday, MARCH 25 10:00am-11:30am
Welcome
WXML
Y Math
You are here
Zoom Workshop Sessions - https://washington.zoom.us/j/93799708208
