Owner: uw-seattle-american-ethnic-studies:pathway:asian-american-pia-studies-concentration
Source: https://aes.washington.edu/ba-american-ethnic-studies
Title: B.A. in American Ethnic Studies | American Ethnic Studies | University of Washington

The Comparative American Ethnic Studies track focuses on the study of American ethnic groups in relation to each other. The emphasis of this track is on interdisciplinarity and the multiple, overlapping, and heterogeneous experiences of these local, regional, national, and transnational communities as they inform and are informed by each other. These comparative-inflected courses endeavor to enlarge the breadth and expand the depth of the social, political, and cultural investigation of the relevant communities.
AES 250 , 322 , 333 , 335 , 442 , 487 , 498 , 499
Honors Thesis Option
Students must take one upper-division course in a concentration area other than the one chosen for their major focus. Students admitted to the Honors track can satisfy this requirement by taking AES 496 (Honors Thesis).
AES 496 (Honors Thesis) is a supervised individual and independent/tutorial study for seniors who have been admitted to the honors track. It usually involves research, writing, and completion of a thesis of at least 30 pages. Other projects (such as a video production, dramatic play, or other suitable endeavor) may be approved to fulfill the thesis requirement. The student must identify a faculty person willing to act as sponsor for the course. The AES Honors Program Application is available from the AES Academic Adviser, or it can be downloaded from the Honors Program page. For more information, please visit the AES Honors Program page .
Recommended Courses
After completing the 60 credits required for the AES major and fulfilling the University requirements (English composition, foreign language, quantitative or symbolic reasoning, and areas of knowledge), a student may have to take additional courses to accumulate the 180 credits the University requires for graduation. Thus, AES majors are encouraged to take other AES, AAS, AFRAM, or CHSTU classes beyond the 25 credits required in the concentration area. In addition, they are encouraged to enroll in American Indian Studies (AIS) courses in order to broaden their ethnic studies knowledge.
Language Courses
Swahili, Tagalog and other language courses do not fulfill AES requirements.
However, these classes can be used to satisfy the University’s foreign language requirement, or may be applied to the electives category.
Visit our Language Courses page for more information on language courses including scheduling placement tests.
Share
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
B.A. in American Ethnic Studies
Diversity Minor
Related Minors
Scholarships
Careers
Honors Program
Resources
Courses
Support Us
Facebook
Mailing List
Department of American Ethnic Studies
University of Washington
Padelford Hall B-504
Box 354380
Seattle, WA 98195-4380
Phone: (206) 543-5401
5 credits: AES 150 -- In-Justice for All: Intersection of Race, Ethnicity, Class, and Gender in the United States (I&S, DIV)
5 credits: AES 151 -- Identities, Cultures, and Power Across American Ethnic Groups (I&S, DIV)
5 credits: AES 212 -- Comparative American Ethnic Literature (I&S/VLPA, DIV)
