Owner: uw-seattle-environmental-public-health
Source: https://www.deohs.washington.edu/degree-requirements
Title: Degree Requirements | Environmental & Occupational Health Sciences

(choose one chemistry sequence)
(for students who entered the major before Winter 2026: CHOOSE A MINIMUM OF 4 OF THE FOLLOWING COURSES)
[Supplemental official source] Applying to the major
[Supplemental official source] applying to the major page
[Supplemental official source] Undergraduate Program
/>
© 2025 Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences | School of Public Health | University of Washington
<button class="button js-form-submit form-submit btn-primary btn"
<form action="/search"
<input class="form-search form-control"
<label for="edit-keys"
<svg enable-background="new 0 0 100.8 100.8"
1. Personal statement: A personal statement is required; however, it is not used to determine admission to the major. Instead, it serves as an advising tool to help us learn about your goals and interests in Environmental Public Health. Your statement should be approximately 500 words, and should address the following questions:
15 Credits from approved elective list . Run a degree audit or contact an adviser to view the full list.
2. Unofficial UW transcript: Current students may access unofficial transcripts through the Grades and Transcripts section found on the Academics block on MyUW . Select the Academics block at the bottom of the page. Next, select Unofficial Transcript under the Grades and Transcripts section. Select Printer-Friendly Version on the Unofficial Transcript page. It will create a PDF file of your unofficial transcript, which you can save and then upload into the application form.
3. Prerequisites and satisfactory progress: In the application you will be asked whether you are applying for early or upper division admission, and you will need to list out the prerequisites that you've already completed. You will also need to indicate how many quarters and credits you have completed. If you have any questions about early versus upper division admission, or prerequisites, please contact an advisor .
30-90 credits / fewer than 6 quarters completed at time of application
90 or more credits / 6 or more quarters completed at time of application
a designated STEM discipline
About DEOHS
Adjunct Faculty
Advisory Committee
Affiliate Faculty
Alumni
Alumni and Employers
Alumni profiles
Amalawa Aiwekhoe,
and Undergraduate Program Coordinator
Application Dates
Applying to the major
Areas of Emphasis
aria-label="Search Site">
As a transfer student, you can declare the Bachelors of Science in Environmental Public Health major after you are admitted to the UW. Please consult the Environmental Public Health Transfer page for more information.
Autumn 2026: Jun 13 - Aug 21
Bachelor of Science in Environmental Public Health
Bachelor of Science in Environmental Public Health | Environmental & Occupational Health Sciences
Be admitted to the major by meeting minimum requirements .
BIOL 180, 200, 220 (15 credits)
BIOL 180, 200, 220 (15) Introductory Biology with labs
Biology
BIOST 310 (Recommended), STAT 220, STAT 311, or Q SCI 381, or department approved statistics course (4-5 credits)
Biostatistics, Epidemiologic, and Bioinformatic Training in Environmental Health
BS, Environmental Health ('22) and current MS student
Calendar
Career pathways
Career ready
Career Services
Careers
CHEM 142, 152 Chemistry series
CHEM 142, 152, 162, CHEM 237, 238, 241 (26 credits)
CHEM 142, 152, 162, CHEM 237, 238, 241 General and Organic Chemistry
CHEM 142, 152, CHEM 220 (15 credits)
CHEM 142, 152, CHEM 220 OR
CHEM 142, 152, CHEM 223, 224, 241 (21 credits)
CHEM 142, 152, CHEM 223, 224, 241 OR
Chemistry
class="visually-hidden">Search
Clean Air
Clean Water
Climate Change and Health
Clinical Faculty
Combine your STEM skills with an Environmental Public Health degree to make an impact on population health, community health and the environment.
Complete a 400-hour internship that prepares you for a career in environmental public health science practice or research.
complete all early admission prerequisites above plus:
completing a 400-hour internship
Concurrent Degrees
Connect with an adviser now via Zoom or phone.
Connect with us
Contact an adviser
Contact an Adviser
Contact an adviser Declare the major Read about student internships
Contact Us
Contact Us / Intranet / Privacy / Terms
Continuing Education
Course Information
Cumulative GPA of 2.5
Cumulative GPA of 3.0
data-drupal-selector="edit-keys"
Declare the major
Declaring the Major
Degree requirements
Degree Requirements
Degree Requirements | Environmental & Occupational Health Sciences
DEOHS Faculty Positions and Fellowships
DEOHS Newsroom
Directions
Early Admission Prerequisites
Emeritus Faculty
Employers
ENGL 131 or equivalent English composition
ENV H 306 (3) Health and Sustainability
ENV H 311 (3) Introduction to Environmental Health (AUT and SPR)
ENV H 312 (3) Introduction to Occupational Health and Safety (WIN) required for students who declare the major beginning WIN26.
ENV H 320 (5) Introduction to Technical Communication in Environmental Health (WIN)
ENV H 405 (4) Toxic Chemicals & Human Health (SPR)
ENV H 406 (3) Disasters and Public Health
ENV H 409 (3) Microbiome and Environmental Health
ENV H 417 (3) Case Studies in Children's Environmental Health Disparities (also fulfills Diversity Requirement)
ENV H 432 (5) Chemical Sampling and Analysis (SPR)
ENV H 433 (5) Microbiological Sampling and Analysis (WIN)
ENV H 439 (3) One Health: Human and Animal Health in a Changing Environment
ENV H 440 (3) Water, Wastewater and Health
ENV H 441 (3) Food Protection
ENV H 442 (3) Zoonotic Diseases
ENV H 443 (3) Housing and Health
ENV H 444 (4) Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria/Genes Impact on the Environment and Public Health
ENV H 445 (3) Solid Waste Management
ENV H 447 (3) Environmental Change and Infectious Disease
ENV H 448 (3) Community Air Pollution
ENV H 451 (3) Ecology of Environmentally Transmitted Microbiological Hazards
ENV H 452 (3) Detection and Control of Environmentally Transmitted Microbiological Hazards
ENV H 453 (3) Industrial Hygiene
ENV H 460 (3) Occupational Safety Management
ENV H 462 (3) Technical Aspects of Occupational Safety
ENV H 465 (3) Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in Public Health
ENV H 472 (3) Environmental Risk and Society (AUT)
ENV H 473 (4) Environmental Health Policy and Practice (WIN)
ENV H 475 (3) Environmental Justice and Public Health
ENV H 478 (3) Remote Sensing for Environmental Health
ENV H 479 (3) Climate Change and Public Health Practice
ENV H 480 (1) Undergraduate Seminar (AUT)
ENV H 482 (2-15) Environmental Health Internship (400 hour required internship)
ENV H 538 (2) Public Health & the Built Environment (need instructor permission)
Environmental
Environmental & Occupational Health Sciences
Environmental Health in Media (ENV H 205)
Environmental health is
Environmental Health Laboratory
Environmental Health Seminar
Environmental Pathology/Toxicology Training Program
Environmental Public Health
Environmental Public Health Core, complete all courses
Environmental Public Health Electives
Environmental Public Health Minor
Environmental Public Health Selectives , choose a minimum of 3 of the following courses. Syllabi for all classes below are on the courses page .
Environmental Toxicology
EPI 320 (4) Introduction to Epidemiology (AUT and SPR)
Every single DEOHS class I've taken, I don’t think there’s one that I haven’t used at least once on the job. With this degree, you really feel like you can do anything.
Explore environmental factors that affect human health through popular films, including Contagion , WALL-E and Dark Waters .
Exploring Environment & Health Connections (ENV H 111)
Faculty Directory
Feel welcomed and valued in a department that works to attract students and faculty from diverse backgrounds and perspectives.
Field Research and Consultation Group
Follow us
Funded Projects
Funded Research for UW Undergraduates
G H 418/ENV H 418 (3) Understanding and Managing the Health Risks of Climate Change
Get ready for a graduate program, medical school or a health care career.
Giving
Graduate Certificates
Graduate degree finder
Graduate job-ready after
Graduate Program
health = Healthier communities
History
How does our environment impact our health? Learn about environmental justice, worker safety, chemical hazards, disasters and climate change, and more.
How to Apply
How to Declare the Major
How will completing this degree help you to achieve your professional and academic goals?
id="edit-keys" maxlength="128"
id="searchform">
In the UW Department of Environmental & Occupational Health Sciences (DEOHS), you can:
Infectious Diseases
Information on this page reflects our updated requirements and degree name as of Fall 2023. If you are currently in the undergraduate program and have questions, please reach out to an adviser.
Internship 101
Introduction to Environmental Health (ENV H 311)
Job Openings in the Field
Job Openings In the Field
Job Search Survival Skills
Learn how air pollution, contaminants in food and water and other hazards can be controlled or prevented to improve health in communities and workplaces.
Main menu
Make an appointment
Master of Public Health
Master of Science Applied
Master of Science Thesis
Math
MATH 111, MATH 120, or department approved math course (5 credits). This course is a graduation requirement, but we recommend that students complete the math requirement before they register for the other supporting science courses. The recommended preparation for PHYS 114 is a previous algebra course covering concepts such as trigonometry and exponential functions. The recommended preparation for CHEM 142 is a good working knowledge of algebra.
Math Preparation: Students do not have to complete the math graduation requirement before applying to the major. However, we recommend that students complete a math course before they register for the other supporting science courses. The recommended preparation for PHYS 114 is a previous algebra course covering concepts such as trigonometry and exponential functions. The recommended preparation for CHEM 142 is a good working knowledge of algebra.
method="get"
MICROM 301 (3) General Microbiology (AUT and SPR)
MICROM 302 (2) General Microbiology Lab (AUT and SPR)
Minimum Admission Requirements
MPH, Occupational and Environmental Medicine
name=""
name="keys" placeholder="Search"
News and Events
Northwest Center for Occupational Health and Safety
Notification: Applications are reviewed as they are submitted. Applicants who meet the minimum prerequisites and can complete the degree within the UW's maximum time frame will be notified within 10 business days and asked to come in for an advising appointment to formally declare the major.
Occupational & Environmental Medicine
Occupational Hygiene/ Exposure Science
On-demand Information Session
One Health
One of the following courses :
One of the following general and organic chemistry sequences :
Online advising available
online application form
Our Blog
Our BS in Environmental Public Health is an applied science program within the top-ranked UW School of Public Health. You will graduate job-ready with practical work experience, opening doors to careers with highly competitive salaries.
Our BS in Environmental Public Health offers the best of both worlds: a hands-on STEM degree with a public health focus that lets you make a lasting impact on human health and the environment.
Our Mission, Vision & Values
Our program is one of only 29 undergraduate programs accredited by the National Environmental Health & Protection Accreditation Council (EHAC).
Pediatric Environmental Health Specialty Unit
PhD in Environmental Health Sciences
PHYS 114/117 (5 credits)
Physics
Prospective Students
public health degree
Public health impact
Regular Faculty
Research
Safe Food
Safe Workplaces
School of Public Health
Search
Services
Serving Washington State
Sign up
size="15" title="Enter the term you want to search for"
Skip to main content
Spring 2026: Dec 13 - Mar 20 OPEN
Statistics
STEM + Environmental public
STEM degree
Student and Alumni profiles
Student Research
Students may have prerequisites courses in progress at the time of application. Students who have questions about the major or the admission process are encouraged to meet with an adviser .
Students with 30-90 credits, and/or fewer than 6 quarters completed at the time of application will apply under early admission. Students with more than 90 credits and/or 6 quarters or more completed will apply under upper division requirements. Applicants must have a 2.0 in each of the prerequisites courses. Early admission applicants must have a cumulative GPA of 3.0. Upper division applicants must have a cumulative GPA of 2.5.
Summer 2026: Mar 21 - Jun 12
Supporting Science
Supporting Undergraduate Research Experiences in Environmental Health (SURE-EH)
Sustainable Communities
Tania Busch Isaksen,
Teaching Professor
The annual mean wage for environmental health specialists in Washington is $86,500. Our team of academic advisers, career counselors and faculty supports you through our structured internship program, career planning and preparing for graduate programs or medical school.
The application consists of three components which you should prepare before you access the online application form
The BS in Environmental Public Health is a "minimum requirements" major, which means that all students who meet the minimum requirements listed below, and who can complete the degree within the UW's maximum time frame , are admitted. Students can request to declare the major at any time by submitting an online declaration form.
The following is a list of courses required for the completion of the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Public Health. All courses must be completed with a minimum grade of 2.0. Prospective students should consult the applying to the major page for information on the admission process. In addition to the School of Public Health’s general education requirements , students complete the courses listed below.
Transfer
Transfer Student Information
Tuition & Funding Opportunities
type="search"
type="submit"
Undergraduate Program
University of Washington
Upon completion of the B.S. in Environmental Public Health, all graduates will be able to demonstrate the competencies detailed on the B.S. in EH Degree Competencies document (PDF).
Upper Division Admission Prerequisites
value=""
value="Search"
version="1.1" viewbox="0 0 100.8 100.8"
Video: Career panel with Environmental Health alumni Career pathways in Environmental Health
We are unique within the UW School of Public Health as the only undergraduate program with a STEM-designated degree. Environmental Public Health is designated as a Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) discipline by the US Department of Homeland Security.
We review applications as they are submitted, and students should hear back from us within 10 business days. The application deadline for entry to the following quarter is the Friday of finals week. The upcoming application windows for entry to the following quarters are:
What is Environmental Public Health? Try one of our intro courses
Why do you want to be an Environmental Public Health major?
Winter 2027: Aug 22 - Dec 18
Work directly with our faculty on their research into the health effects of wildfire smoke, worker safety, environmental justice and more.
Worked as a Boeing occupational health and safety specialist
xml:space="preserve">
