Owner: uw-seattle-informatics
Source: https://ischool.uw.edu/academics/informatics/curriculum
Title: Informatics Curriculum | Information School | University of Washington

-->
(Please note: All schedules subject to change)
[Supplemental official source] Academics
[Supplemental official source] Capstone
[Supplemental official source] Course Schedules
[Supplemental official source] Degree Planning
[Supplemental official source] Experiential Learning
[Supplemental official source] Graduation
[Supplemental official source] Registration
* These courses are only offered during the quarters noted above.
** Choose one of these three options:
*Please note: Some courses that are taken by MSIM and MLIS students may be of interest to Informatics students. However, not all IMT and LIS courses are appropriate for INFO students. Consult with the Informatics advisor before registering if you are interested in taking an IMT or LIS class.
&copy; 2026 UW Information School
<!--
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TM46LWX"
12:30-1:20 PM
12:30-1:30 PM
2017-02-13
2024-04-19
2024-05-29
2025-07-07
2026-03-10
2026-04-10
206-685-9937
5:00-6:00 PM
5:30-8:00 PM
9-month online graduate certificate program
A better way to pay artists
About Us
Academics
Additional Information for Graduating Students
Admissions
Advising & Support
AI Certificate Information Session & Q&A
AI for Organizations
AI for Organizations certificate to launch in autumn
All
All students enrolled in the Informatics major are eligible to complete Departmental Honors in the program. Learn about the requirements.
Alumni
any two courses at the INFO 35x-level.
Apply to graduate in autumn of senior year
Approved electives
Apr 15
Apr 17
Apr 22
As cybersecurity and artificial intelligence intersect, they introduce both new capabilities and potential risks. To better understand these dynamics, Informatics students in INFO 492 devised cybersecurity attack and defense simulations... Read more
Attend iWelcome Week and Informatics New Student Orientation in September
Autumn
Autumn 2023 | Winter 2024 | Spring 2024 | Summer 2024 | Autumn 2024 | Winter 2025 | Spring 2025 | Summer 2025 | Autumn 2025 | Winter 2026
Azure Dev Tools
Baccalaureate Honors
Before you are able to graduate, you are required to complete the following procedures. If you have any questions concerning this process, please contact Student Services. Learn about the Convocation ceremony .
Begin applying for internships in autumn quarter (recommended)
Begin taking major electives/degree option classes spring of junior year
Biomedical and Health Informatics Option: BIME 300, BIME 435, INFO 468, INFO 478.
Bluesky
Box 352840 - Mary Gates Hall, Ste. 370
Campfire Sessions: Climate Topics
Canvas LMS
Capstone
Capstone (4 cr)
Capstone (8-credits): Students complete a culminating experience.
Capstone details
Capstone is the culmination of students’ learning experience at the iSchool. For their Capstone projects, Informatics students work independently or with sponsors to identify real-world information problems. Then, they develop the approaches and methods needed to address these problems, conduct the research, and finally present their findings in both oral and written formats.
Capstone Projects
Capstone Stories
Capstone: Student Info
Career Outcomes
Careers
Changing, Postponing, or Reactivating Graduation
Choose between CSE 123: Introduction to Computer Programming III (4 cr), CSE 143
Choose between CSE 123: Introduction to Computer Programming III (4 cr), CSE 143:
Choose between CSE 373, INFO 442 or INFO 443 (4-5 cr) **
Client-Side Development (5 cr)
Close
Close menu
Committees
Community
Complete a summer internship (recommended)
Completing an option is not required. Students may declare a degree option at any time, but typically file the necessary change of major forms after their spring quarter, so that they are correctly listed in the system prior to applying for graduation the following autumn.
Computer Programming II (5 cr) and CSE 163: Intermediate Data Programming (4 cr)
Contact Us
Core courses (54-58 credits)
Core topics of iSchool research
Course descriptions
Course Maps
Course Registration
Course Registration | Information School | University of Washington
Course Schedules
Courses in the UW Informatics program: lower-division requirements, core classes and degree concentrations at the Information School.
Courses required for admission (15-20 credits)
CSE 373: Data Structures & Algorithms (4 credits)
Cum Laude is the next 6.5%
Current Students
Current UW Students: Junior year course schedule example
Current UW students: senior year course schedule example
Customize Your Experience
Data (INFO 33x, 43x courses). These courses teach foundational concepts and skills in how to represent, organize, store and retrieve data using technologies such as databases.
Data Science Option: INFO 370, INFO 371, INFO 430, INFO 474, or other approved data science elective
Data Science Option: INFO 370, INFO 371, INFO 430, INFO 474, or other data science electives.
Databases & Data Modeling (5 cr)
Deadline for re-activating the graduation application is the third Friday of the quarter in which you wish to graduate. Please schedule an appointment with an Informatics Academic Advisor or email informatics@uw.edu if you plan to change, postpone or reactivate your graduation quarter.
Dean’s List
Declare your major option by spring of junior year (recommended)
Declaring an option
Degree Planning
Degree Planning | Information School | University of Washington
Departmental Honors
Design (INFO 36x, 46x courses). These courses teach creative design skills, helping students imagine how information might be used to address problems, opportunities and injustices in the world.
Design Methods (4 cr)
Designing Information Experiences: Students learn how to envision and create new information technologies.
Details on the requirements to complete your degree within the Informatics major.
Developing Information Technology: Students learn how to build and maintain computing and information technologies. This includes foundational topics in computer science.
Development (INFO 34x, 44x courses). These courses teach foundational skills in processing and provisioning data through software, including web and app development.
Directory
Diversity
Doctorate Program
Documents That Changed the World, with Joe Janes
Double Degrees
Elective
Electives (12-15 credits)
Emergency Info
Employers & Partners
Enter search text
Events
Every gift makes a difference to students
Everyone
Experiential Learning
Exploring Informatics: Students take foundational skills to understand the domain of Informatics.
Facebook
Faculty & Staff
Faculty Affairs
Financial Aid & Scholarships
Find help from our team of student advisors
Find iSchool faculty, staff and students
Focus Areas
Follow the steps to graduate with your bachelor&#039;s degree in Informatics.
For a music creator, getting paid by listeners around the world should be as simple as a fan clicking “subscribe.” But for many artists in less developed countries, existing streaming platforms make that difficult or out of reach.An... Read more
For Capstone, students act as attackers
For more information about course registration, please click here .
For planning purposes, links to the UW Time Schedule for past quarters are included below. Please note that course offerings and schedules may not be the same for future quarters.
Foundations (INFO 20x, 30x, 40x courses). These courses teach the foundations of data, information and knowledge, helping students understand what information is, and how we create and use it in our lives, organizations and communities.
Full Results
Future Students
Graduation
Graduation | Information School | University of Washington
Graduation Applications
Grants & Awards
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Highlights
How our research drives progress and helps people
How to collaborate with faculty and students
Hubs for innovative scholarship & research
I am the iSchool
I Am the iSchool
iEngage partners and iSchool community partners are invited to sponsor Capstone projects by submitting project ideas each autumn and working with students during the winter and spring quarters. Learn about sponsoring a student team.
If you are new to the major, please read our Registration FAQ .
If you need an add code for a course due to alternate or waived prerequisites, class standing, or other issues, please email informatics@uw.edu at least one week in advance of your registration date.
If you plan to graduate, you must apply to graduate by following the instructions on the Informatics Resource Site (Canvas) . Please run the degree audit via MyUW regularly to ensure that you are making timely progress toward the degree. If there are any discrepancies or questions, contact informatics@uw.edu as soon as you can.
IMT - Master of Science in Information Management (MSIM) *
In today’s fast-paced work environment, managers often look for tools to make their jobs easier. For someone managing a large team, wouldn’t it be nice to have a tool that regularly provides summarized feedback about each employee?... Read more
Independent Study
Indigenous data has a history of bad management from non-Natives, says UW Information School Assistant Professor Sandy Littletree (Eastern Shoshone/Navajo). Library collections may include sacred songs, ceremonies and stories that were...
INFO - Informatics
INFO 200
INFO 200: Intellectual Foundations of Informatics
INFO 201
INFO 201: Foundational Skills for Data Science
INFO 290: Orientation to Informatics
INFO 300
INFO 300: Research Methods
INFO 330
INFO 330: Databases and Data Modeling
INFO 340
INFO 340: Client-Side Development
INFO 351
INFO 360
INFO 360: Design Methods
INFO 380
INFO 380 *
INFO 380: Product and Information Systems Management
INFO 442: Cooperative Software Development (5 credits), not offered every quarter
INFO 443: Software Architecture (5 credits), not offered every quarter
INFO 490 *
INFO 490: Project Capstone I and INFO 491: Project Capstone II (8 credits total)
INFO 491 *
INFO 495 Internship for Credit
INFO 496 Service Learning
INFO 499 Independent Study
INFO Elective
INFO: Spring 2026 | Summer 2026 | Autumn 2026
Informatics
Informatics Academics
Informatics Capstone
Informatics Capstone | Information School | University of Washington
Informatics Course Schedules
Informatics Course Schedules | Information School | University of Washington
Informatics courses can also be understood as informing a variety of focus areas, which are lenses that frame different considerations of information in the curriculum. For example, Informatics offers courses in data science (INFO 37x/47x), cybersecurity (INFO 31x/41x), and search and retrieval (INFO 32x/42x). Most Informatics courses can be labeled as drawing on one or more focus areas; students can use these focus areas to help plan their core classes and electives. See the full list of focus areas for details.
Informatics Curriculum
Informatics Curriculum | Information School | University of Washington
Informatics Experiential Learning
Informatics Experiential Learning | Information School | University of Washington
Informatics major requirements
Informatics Minor
Informatics students are strongly encouraged to do one or more internships or independent studies.
Informatics students help Google improve bug reporting
Informatics students wrangle data for legal-aid organization
Information
Information and Organizations: Students learn to analyze the impacts and use of information technologies within organizations.
Information and Society (8-10 credits): Students learn to analyze the impacts of information technologies on individuals and society as a whole.
Information Ethics & Policy (5 cr)
Information for Informatics majors and non-majors on registering for INFO classes.
Information Systems Analysis & Design (5 cr)
Instagram
Intellectual Foundations of Informatics (5 cr)
Intensive Capstone students use AI to improve rural health care
Internship Reporting
Internships for Credit
Internships for credit, service learning, and independent study / research require approval from the Informatics academic advisor. You can find more information on registering for experiential learning courses here .
iSchool Intranet
iSchool Showcase
iSchools.org
IT / Help Desk
Jasper Maynard Zhang : Jasper Maynard Zhang, Informatics: "I am interested in how technology and data science can be used to address causes I care about." Read more.
Jobs
Jump to Footer Navigation
Jump to Main Content
Jump to Page Navigation
Jump to Top Navigation
Knowledge Base
Law Librarianship
LinkedIn
LIS - Master of Library and Information Science (MLIS) *
Loading Results... Loading search results, please wait.
Logo & Brand Guidelines
Magna Cum Laude is the next 3%
Majors have priority when enrolling for classes offered through the program. Once accepted to the major, Informatics students may register for Informatics classes during Period I registration. Please keep the following in mind:
Make a Gift
Making the iSchool a joyful professional community for faculty
Mary Gates Hall 258
Master of Arts
Master of Library and Information Science
Master of Science in Information Management
Meet some of our students and alumni
Menu
Minors
Minors are included as part of your major degree application but you should run a separate minor degree audit when checking on your academic progress. If requirements for the minor are not met, the major degree will not be awarded.
MLIS
More info
More Information
MSIM
Museology
MyUW
New course offerings, including special topics
News
News & Events
Non-majors are able to enroll in classes in the Informatics major as space is available. There is no restriction on the number of Informatics courses non-majors may take. During Period I and Period 2 registration, students already enrolled in the major have priority in registering for classes. Informatics classes are available to non-majors during Period 3 registration.
Office 365
Once students have been admitted to the major, they typically follow the steps below to complete their degree:
one course from CSE 123: Introduction to Computer Programming III, CSE 143: Computer Programming II, or CSE 163: Intermediate Data Programming
one course from CSE 373: Data Structures and Algorithms (4 credits), INFO 442: Cooperative Software Development (5 credits), or INFO 443: Software Architecture (5 credits)
One course in computer programming; see the list of accepted courses
One course in statistics; see the list of accepted courses
One course in the social sciences (SSc) area of inquiry ; must be another course that is not INFO 200
Organizations (INFO 38x, 48x course). These courses teach key perspectives on how information is used in organizations such as businesses, communities and governments, ensuring that students’ perspectives go beyond the individual.
Outlook on the web
Past Time Schedules
People
Ph.D.
Pick Your Path Through MSIM
Podcast
Privacy Policy
Product and Information Systems Management (5 cr)
Professional & Cont. Ed.
Professor&#039;s work helps to advance Indigenous librarianship
Programs
Projected Course Schedules
Projected INFO Schedule
Projected INFX Schedule
Qualtrics
Quarterly Time Schedules
Read more
Recent funding for iSchool research projects
Recent, current and projected schedules for courses in the Informatics major.
Recruiting Timelines Decoded
Registering for Informatics classes as a non-major
Registering for Informatics classes as an Informatics major
Registration
Related programs & non-degree options
Request Information
Request more information
Research
Research Areas
Research Groups
Research Impact
Research Methods in Informatics (5 cr)
Research Methods in Informatics (5 credits)
Resources:
Sample course plans
Scholarships & Funding
Search
Search:
Seattle , WA 98195-2840
See Full Directory
See Full Results
See the prerequisites page for details.
Service Learning
Sign up for graduation ceremonies (iSchool Convocation and UW Commencement) and order graduation materials
Site Login
Society (INFO 35x, 45x courses). These courses teach core concepts in data and information ethics, policy, and society, giving students perspectives on how information is used in our society.
Special Topics & New Courses
Specialized MLIS for those with a JD
Sponsor a Project
Spring
Standard Grading Scale
Stay connected with the iSchool and fellow alumni
Steps to completing your degree
Steps to Graduate
Student Info
Students are strongly encouraged to complete internships, service learning, and independent studies. Internships may take various forms, such as a full-time summer internship or a part-time internship that runs throughout a quarter or school year. Internships may be paid or unpaid. Service learning allows students to use the skills gained through the Informatics program in service of community organizations, particularly in volunteer or unpaid roles. Independent studies are typically research-oriented, and are beneficial for students interested in pursuing careers in research or academia.
Students make kudos count
Students may also declare a degree option in either Data Science or Biomedical and Health Informatics to have that phrase added to their transcript. Completing an option requires taking four electives from within that option’s focus area:
Students present their Capstone projects at the annual iSchool Showcase, which highlights student work from across the Information School. Learn about the 2025 iSchool Showcase.
Students pursuing double degrees will need a minimum of 225 credits to graduate. Double degree students will submit two applications and receive two diplomas. Individual departments handle graduation application differently, so check with your other department to ensure that you are following their departmental application process.
Students show real-world impact of Capstone projects
Students showcase skills and solutions at annual Capstone gala event
Students take a range of Informatics electives (other upper-division INFO courses). Courses outside of INFO can also count as electives; please reach out to informatics@uw.edu for more information. Students may also complete a degree option in either Data Science or Biomedical and Health Informatics by choosing electives in the Data Science or Health & Well-Being focus areas respectively. Completing either option requires 4 electives:
Students work with organizations to solve information problems
Study Abroad
Studying Information: Students learn how to analyze and research information technologies.
Summa Cum Laude is the top 0.5%
Support the iSchool
Take junior-level core courses: CSE 123, 143 or CSE 163; choose one of CSE 373, INFO 442 or INFO 443; INFO 300; INFO 330; INFO 340; INFO 360; INFO 380; and two INFO 35x courses
Take the Capstone course sequence: INFO 490 & INFO 491 and present at spring Capstone event. Alternatively, you can complete a research Capstone. See the Informatics Capstone page for details.
Technical Foundations of Informatics (5 cr)
Terms & Conditions
The curriculum plans below can be used to help you plan the remainder of your time in the major. The course schedule reflected on this page is typical of the path students will follow to complete their degree, but individuals may choose to pursue their own path to degree completion.
The Informatics curriculum includes six core areas:
The Informatics major includes a core that spans the breadth of the curriculum, allowing students to learn to study, design, and develop information technology for the good of people, organizations and society. Each course provides a foundation that students use in their Capstone projects. Students further their expertise in a broad range of electives taught by iSchool faculty and invited guest faculty from industry, government and nonprofits around the Puget Sound area.
The iSchool is home to innovators and leaders who make information work
The latest news from our faculty and research staff
The latest stories from our community
The official UW Time Schedule shows course numbers, titles, descriptions, instructors, meeting days and times for each iSchool class.
The School
The University of Washington Information School is introducing a new graduate certificate geared toward professionals in organizations that are responding to the opportunities and challenges represented by artificial intelligence. The...
Three or four months after you graduate your diploma will be sent to the permanent address on record in the MyUW website at the time of graduation. The name on the diploma will appear as it does on the MyUW website. Visit the UW Graduation, Commencement, and Diplomas website for more information.
Thursday, May 22, 2025
To earn a Bachelor of Science in Informatics, students must complete the following major requirements (effective Autumn 2023; see previous requirements ):
To propose an internship, service learning, or independent study in Informatics, you must prepare and present your proposal to the iSchool faculty member who will supervise and evaluate your work. Submit your proposal at least two to three weeks in advance of the quarter in which registration is intended. Please see the links below for more information on the process:
toolkit
Toolkit
Tools
Transfer students: junior year course schedule example
Transfer students: senior year course schedule example
Undergraduate major and minor
United States of America
University of Washington
University of Washington Information School
Upcoming Info Sessions
Updates
UW academic calendar
UW Academic Calendar
UW course evaluation catalog
UW Diploma
UW Time Schedule
Videos: Alumni at Work
Watch : A breakdown of the courses you need to take to complete the Informatics major and a bachelor's degree at the University of Washington.
Watermark
We are committed to building an inclusive community
Wednesday, April 1, 2026
Wednesday, April 8, 2026
Wednesday, May 28, 2025
What's happening on campus and beyond
Winter
Workday
Working individually or in a defined group, Capstone is student-directed, meaning you take responsibility for identifying and defining a problem to work on, developing the approach and methods needed to address or research the problem, carrying out the investigation, and presenting findings. Learn about the Capstone experience.
You must attain a GPA of 3.50 in the final grades with minimum 12 graded credits per quarter. Learn more about the dean’s list .
Youtube
Zoom / Online
