Owner: uw-seattle-comparative-literature
Source: https://cinema.washington.edu/ba-comparative-literature
Title: B.A. in Comparative Literature | Cinema & Media Studies | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] B.A. in Cinema & Media Studies
[Supplemental official source] Departmental Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Requirements for th
***
*Note: Minimum foreign language prerequisite to meet this requirement: completion of the second year (often higher) of the foreign language. Students should consult the departmental adviser to determine the prerequisite language course for the foreign literature course, e.g. German 203 for German 311; French 302 for French 304.
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
About
Academic Placements
Adjuncts & Affiliates
Admissions
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Advising
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
Alumni Update
An undergraduate major in Comparative Literature trains students in the critical analysis of texts. It explores how the rhetorical and aesthetic features of those texts respond to and shape social values, attitudes and beliefs. The major is international in scope and emphasizes intellectual breadth. It explores the relationships among different cultures and between literature and other fields of knowledge, such as art history, philosophy, religion and political thought. This broad latitude maximizes students’ opportunities to design their own courses of study. Graduates of this degree pursue careers in a variety of fields such as marketing, publishing, law, technology, public relations and the arts.
B.A. in Cinema & Media Studies
B.A. in Comparative Literature
B.A. in Comparative Literature | Cinema & Media Studies | University of Washington
Box 354338
C LIT 300: Introduction to Comparative Literature: Forms, Genre, History
C LIT 400 (5 credits)
C LIT 400: Introduction to Theory & Criticism
Calendar
Careers
Certificate in Cinema & Media Studies
Cinema & Media Studies
cinema@uw.edu
College of Arts & Sciences
Comparative Literature
Comparative Literature Major Before Fall 2009
Comparative Literature Major Before Fall 2009 | Cinema & Media Studies | University of Washington
Completion of either the English Composition requirement or a W-course
Completion of one of C Lit 250, 251 or 252
Completion of one of C Lit 250, 251 or 252 (5 credits count toward the 50 credit major requirements)
Contact Us
Courses
Current & Upcoming
Degree Requirements
Department of Cinema & Media Studies
Departmental Requirements
Directories
Discover New Worlds with the Global Literary Studies Major
Dissertations
Diversity
Drawing on the expertise of faculty from across the Humanities Division, GLITS offers students a rich array of courses that reveal the importance and lasting impact of various forms of imaginative writing and speech. All GLITS courses are taught in English and work with literature in English translation. Skills developed by the study of literature include the ability to effectively communicate in oral and written form, to activate one's imagination and creativity, and to engage with varied points of view, ways of thinking, and lived experiences.
Emergency Resources
Faculty
Faculty Spotlights
Fax: (206) 685-2017
Featured Courses
Fields of Interest
For Faculty & Staff
GLITS is a flexible program of study that provides students many opportunities to customize their degree.
Global Literary Studies
Graduate
Graduate Students
Home
If you enrolled in the Literature option BEFORE FALL 2009, the major requirements are different. See Requirements for th ose accepted before Fall 2009 .
If you enrolled in the Literature option FALL 2009 AND BEYOND, the major requirements are different than below. See Requirements for those accepted Fall 2009 and beyond
Instagram
Internships
Introduction
M.A. in Cinema & Media Studies
Mailing List
Main menu
Major requirements – 45 credits (plus 5 credits from prerequisites) from the groups below:
Major requirements – 50 credits from the groups below):
Make a Gift
Maps
Menu
Minimum 2.0 overall GPA
Minor in Comparative Literature
MyUW
News & Events
Newsletter
No course presented toward fulfillment of the 50-credit major requirements may be taken on a credit/no credit or satisfactory/non-satisfactory basis. There is no formal application procedure for declaring the Comparative Literature major; however, a minimum GPA of 2.0 is required in order to be admitted to the program.
No course presented toward fulfillment of the 50-credit major requirements may be taken on a credit/no credit or satisfactory/non-satisfactory basis. There is no formal application procedure for declaring the Comparative Literature major; however, a minimum GPA of 2.0 is required in order to be admitted to the program. To declare the major, see the Comparative Literature Staff Undergraduate Adviser .
NOTE: This course serves as a foundation for other upper-division C LIT courses and should be completed by all C LIT majors as soon as possible; offered twice yearly)
One 300-level cinema studies course (5 credits)
One additional course in Comparative Literature at the 300 or 400 level. (5 credits)
One course in a literature at a third year level or above in the student’s foreign language (3-5 credits). Minimum preparation for such a course is completion of two years of college language study (sometimes higher) in the foreign language, or prior knowledge of the language.
One course taken in the program must focus primarily on literature written before 1800.
Our department recently changed its name to Cinema & Media Studies. Please see our FAQ about the name change and what it means for current students .
Overview
Padelford Hall B531
People
Ph.D. in Cinema & Media Studies
Phone: (206) 543-7542
Please see an Adviser to declare the major and our Undergraduate Programs section for further information about career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Pre-requisites to declaring the major:
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Progress Guidelines
Projects
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Registration Policies & Procedures
Related Centers & Programs
Remaining credits in literature courses chosen from among the offerings of Comparative Literature and the language and literature departments at the University of Washington, either in the original language or in translation.
Research
Resources
Resources & Opportunities
Scholarships
Search
Seattle Film Scene
Seattle, WA 98195
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Spotlights
Students who major in Comparative Literature select either the Literature Option (this page) or the Cinema Studies Option. See the Comparative Literature Undergraduate Advisor to declare the major.
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Support Our Department
Support Us
Terms
The Comparative Literature major has minimum requirements. The admission requirements are the following:
The Comparative Literature Program studies literature and film as they transcend the confines of a national culture. It explores the relationships among different cultures and between literature, cinema and other fields of knowledge, both visual and verbal, such as art history, philosophy, religion, and political thought. Typical areas of inquiry include traditions and periods, genres, and motifs; patterns of influence and reception of works among national cultures; and the general principles of literary and cinematic theory and criticism.
The remaining (15) credits are to be earned normally in 300 and 400 level literature, cinema or media studies courses from among the offering of Comparative Literature and the following participating departments: Asian Languages and Literatures, Classics, English, Germanics, Near Eastern Languages and Civilization, French and Italian Studies, Spanish and Portuguese Studies, Scandinavian Studies, and Slavic Languages and Literatures.
Three differently numbered courses from among C LIT 320, C LIT 321, C LIT 322, C LIT 323, C Lit 360, C LIT 361, C LIT 362 At least one must come from each series (15 credits)
Two additional C LIT courses at the 300 or 400 level
Two differently-numbered courses from C LIT 320, 321, 322, or 323
Undergraduate
University of Washington
User account menu
Visiting Scholars
Washington
We are happy to announce the Global Literary Studies major. This new major is a dynamic collaboration of multiple UW departments and housed in the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures. Global Literary Studies (GLITS) introduces students to works of literature from around the world and from all eras of human history.
You are here
You will find information about the GLITS major at the link below:
