Owner: uw-seattle-computer-engineering
Source: https://www.cs.washington.edu/academics/undergraduate/degree-requirements/
Title: Degree Planning & Requirements - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering

(*) Required for Computer Science therefore does not count as elective credit or core for Computer Science
(**) If CSE 414 is taken before a student is admitted to the Allen School, they may request for CSE 414 to substitute as a 300-level core course. Students should not take both CSE 344 and CSE 414.
(***) Required for Computer Engineering; therefore does not count toward elective credit or core for Computer Engineering
(*requires application and admission in summer)
(1) an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
(2) an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, , and economic factors
(3) an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
(4) an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts
(5) an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
(6) an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
(7) an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies
(See our page on Graduate School .)
(UW course descriptions)
[Supplemental official source] Capstone Courses
[Supplemental official source] Course Evaluations
[Supplemental official source] Course Lists
[Supplemental official source] Direct to Major (First-Year) Admissions
[Supplemental official source] Policy & Procedures
[Supplemental official source] prerequisites
[Supplemental official source] Study Abroad
[Supplemental official source] Suggested Course Pathways
&copy; 2026 Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle WA
<input id="uw-search-bar" type="search"
1%
1326
1413
1448
1617
164
168
178
181
185 E Stevens Way NE
19
2%
20 min in-person or virtual 1:1 Peer Adviser Appointments
2023 Data
2023 Statistics
2024 Data
2024 Statistics
2025 Data
2094
21
2155
23
24%
244
259
26%
27%
289
30
30%
311 Foundations I
312 Foundations II
33
33%
331 Software Design & Implementation
331, 332 Devices and Circuits I &#038; II (5, 5)
332 Data Structures & Parallelism
333 Systems Programming
340 Interaction Programming
341 Discrete Time Linear Systems (5)
341 Programming Languages
344 Data Management
351 Hardware/Software Interface
36%
369 Digital Design
37%
371 Digital Circuits
3800 E Stevens Way NE
391 Tools
3916
400-level Any graded 400-level majors course with the exception of: EE 406, 452-457, 471, 472, 478, and 491.
401 Vector Calculus &#038; Complex Variables (4)
402 Introduction to Dynamical Systems &#038; Chaos (4)
403 Methods for Partial Differential Equations (4)
42%
422 Introduction to Mathematical Biology (3)
423 Mathematical Biology: Stochastic Models (3)
46
460 Digital Sound (5)
461-463 Digital Sound Synthesis, Digital Sound Processing, Advanced Digital Sound Synthesis and Processing (5, 5, 5). Offered jointly with Music 401-403.
480 Computer Ethics (2)
481 C: Robotics Capstone
483 High-Performance Scientific Computing (5)
485 Computational Bioengineering (4)
4961
5 credits
5 Credits
5 credits (satisfies DIV requirement)
5%
5059
54
564
569
58
599
62
69
76
83
90
92
A Capstone course is not simply an advanced course in a particular sub-area, nor is it an unstructured project course. A Capstone is designed to be a culmination of your learning, and a chance to develop and express many skills at once: For example, technical expertise and communication ability.
A CSE Senior Electives is a course that has a significant overlap with computer science and engineering, either because it focuses on a significant application or use of computers, it focuses on an underlying technology for computers or communication, or it develops a conceptual or formal framework useful in doing computer science and engineering.
A cumulative GPA of at least 3.5 in all CSE courses.
A cumulative UW GPA of at least 3.3.
A detailed list of content covered in the course
A few recommendations apply regardless of career interest. Most students benefit tremendously from doing internships. Internships complement coursework by allowing students to work intensively on a single project using modern technology. Likewise, capstones are valuable for most career paths, again, because employers value project experience in addition to understanding relevant concepts. Research experience is useful regardless of whether you intend to pursue a graduate degree because the ability to work independently is valuable in many career contexts. It is also an ideal way to get to know individual faculty &#8212; and have them know you so they can give you personalized advice.
A good essay conveys important information clearly, but is still concise. Expect that writing your personal statement will take time: start thinking about your essay and writing drafts well before the application deadline. Plan to have your essay reviewed by a mentor/teacher, parent or friend.
A minimum grade of 2.0 in CSE 123 or 143
A minimum grade of 2.0 in CSE 123 or 143; a minimum grade of 2.0 in MATH 126 or 135
A presentation for you to view that provides best practices and suggestions for how to write a strong personal statement for your application.
A syllabus and/or schedule of topics (required)
ABET Accreditation
Academic Misconduct
Academic Programs
Academic Satisfactory Progress Petition
Academics
Academics Overview
Acceptance Rate
Acceptance Rate for 2023
Acceptance Rate for 2024
Acceptance Rate for 2025
Access to Allen School labs, facilities, and events
Accessibility
Accessible Accordion
Additional Questions & Support
Additional support through Multicultural Outreach &#038; Recruitment is available for all applicants, but may be particularly supportive for students who identify as American Indian/Alaska Native, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, Southeast Asian (includes, but is not limited to Bhutanese, Burmese, Cambodian, Cham, Hmong, Laotian, Mien, and Vietnamese), first-generation, low-income, undocumented, or foster care youth. Contact the UW Multicultural Outreach &#038; Recruitment Team at reach@uw.edu
Adjunct Faculty
Administrative Support Team
Admission Decisions Released: Mid February
Admissions
Admissions Decisions Released: Early August
Advanced coursework in these areas or other highly relevant may be petitioned
Advice & FAQs
Advice on applying to graduate school could fill a book, so it is best to talk specifically with a faculty member, preferably your research advisor, well before you apply. Applications are typically due in December, so it is best to start planning by the end of junior year. Some students work for a few years before applying to graduate school; this added experience can be quite helpful. We should note, however, that it is more common for students to apply to graduate school in their senior year. It is also possible to apply to graduate school as a senior, and then to defer for a year to work in industry.
Advising
Advisory Board
Affiliate Faculty
After completing the minimum academic requirements , submit the Allen School departmental application by the appropriate deadline for the quarter you plan to apply.
After speaking with their assigned adviser, students may complete this form to request approval to extend beyond 210 credits AND 12 quarters at the UW. If a student receives approval from the Allen School, they will also need to petition the University. The Allen School Advising Team will assist students with that process if their Allen School petition is approved. Departmental approval alone does not guarantee University approval for a graduation extension.
After submitting the course evaluation form:
After your petition has been reviewed, an email will be sent to your UW email address provided on this form from CSEevals@cs.washington.edu
AI Education in the Allen School
All applications are reviewed by the Allen School Undergraduate Admission Committee, comprised of faculty and advisers. We use an evaluative , rather than a quantitative , process in our admission review. This means our decisions are based on more than simply which applicants have the highest grades. We do not tally up points; rather, we form an overall evaluation based on academic background and other factors, such as outside interests and activities, evidence of leadership and a sense of direction, and life experience. We do not expect all students to excel across the board, but achievement in relevant academic areas or evidence of overcoming hardships can strengthen an application.
All classes taken at a UW-affiliated study abroad program can count as UW credit. The Allen School for Computer Science & Engineering is in charge of assigning the UW CSE equivalent course for any CSE classes taken abroad.
All current UW applicants to the Allen School are required to complete the Allen School prerequisite courses (shown above) by the departmental application deadline for the quarter that they are applying. Prerequisite coursework is essential to ensure that applicants are prepared for upper division coursework upon entering our program so that they are able to graduate on time. Similarly, prerequisite coursework is necessary to ensure that our academic application review is fair to all applicants. We are able to consider requests for Prerequisite Substitutions from applicants who have completed sufficiently advanced coursework that demonstrates knowledge of the material from incomplete prerequisite course(s) on a case-by-case basis. Substitutions are rare, and we do not advise applicants to intentionally skip prerequisite coursework . Applicants must have a grade of 2.0 or better in their advanced course(s) to be considered for a Prerequisite Substitution. Successful completion of a more advanced course does not guarantee that an exception will be made. The Prerequisite Substitution Request Form is now open for applicants who will be applying for the spring or autumn 2026 current UW admissions cycles! To request a prerequisite substitution, please ensure that you have submitted the Prerequisite Substitution Request Form by 5:00 pm PT on the date the departmental application closes for the quarter you intend to apply (January 15 for spring applicants; July 1 for autumn applicants). You will not be able to submit your application without an approved substitution. If you are filling-out this form close to the departmental application deadline, please complete all other sections and questions in your application by the 5:00 pm PT application deadline. Someone from the Undergraduate Student Services Team (USST) will submit your application on your behalf if your request is approved.
All other students should review our Undergraduate Admissions page to determine which pathway is appropriate for them!
All students in the UW Honors Program must complete CSE honors in addition to Honors Program requirements to graduate &#8220;with College Honors.&#8221; Students who complete CSE honors (and are not in the UW Honors Program) graduate &#8220;with Distinction.&#8221;
All the UW
Allen School Alumni
Allen School Ambassadors
Allen School Application Deadline: July 1 at 5:00 pm PT
Allen School applications are reviewed by a committee of Allen School faculty and staff. We have a rubric that our faculty and staff are trained to follow to ensure that we are reviewing all applications consistently. Generally speaking, we evaluate two pieces of an application: the academic record (grades in prerequisite subject areas and overall grade trends) and the answers to the essay questions. While the rubric provides general guidelines for reviewers, we do have a method for flagging applications that don’t fit the rubric or have other information that needs to be captured during our discussion.
Allen School Blog ↗
Allen School Code of Conduct
Allen School Course Evaluation request form
Allen School Course Evaluations
Allen School Departmental Application Closes: January 15 at 5:00 pm PT
Allen School Departmental Application Opens: Early January
Allen School Departmental Application Opens: Mid-June
Allen School Departmental Exchanges
Allen School DTM admissions decisions are sent at the same time as UW first-year admission decisions, between March 1 &#8211; 15. If you are admitted to UW, your major will be listed on your acceptance materials. Students offered DTM admission will see Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or PIE &#8211; A (Pathways for Inclusive Excellence) listed as their major. Students who have been admitted to the UW without an offer of DTM admission into the Allen School will see &#8216;pre-major&#8217; or &#8216;pre-sciences&#8217; listed as their major.
Allen School Events Calendar
Allen School Faculty
Allen School Petitions Process &#8211; Guidelines for Students
Allen School students have access to a wide variety of study abroad programs – both through the department as well as the UW.
Almost all students entering CS Ph.D. research programs will have some research experience before entering graduate school. Research experience can be gained in a number of ways. Independent study with a faculty member or graduate student is the most common. However, it is not a requirement that you complete an honors thesis in order to apply to graduate school. Other paths include capstone projects and work experience. For example, capstone projects often involve independent study and creative problem solving. Working at an early stage startup is another good way to practice research skills &#8212; basically any environment where the problem is poorly specified, the solution is unknown, and success in uncertain &#8212; in other words, the opposite of a typical undergraduate class! It can take years for research ideas to make their way into practice, if at all, so the ability to sustain motivation and progress in the absence of deadlines is essential.
Also see appropriate courses in the other UW departments noted above. Generally, the CSE courses will have a greater concentration on the technical aspects of HCI; the HCDE courses will focus on user experience and user testing; the Interaction Design program takes a design (art) perspective; while the Information School courses on the relationships among information, technology, and people. So, CSE440 will include some basics of doing a usability study, but for a more complete treatment, see for example HCDE417, Survey of Usability Research Techniques.
Am I a current UW applicant?
Am I a first-year, DTM applicant?
AMATH
An approved copy of the thesis, with the faculty advisor’s signature on the cover page , must be submitted electronically through CSE’s Google Form for honors thesis submissions.
An increasing number of areas, not just traditional areas like physics, need high-performance computing that typically involves solving large numerical problems using large-scale parallel processing. People in this area benefit from expertise in applied mathematics as well as computer systems and software development. Despite increasing overlap with data mining and other areas, high-performance computing remains a distinct community.
An option for every student to consider is further study in CSE after graduation. This can be any combination of self-directed study, a masters degree program, and/or a Ph.D. program. It is not possible for us to fit everything worth learning about CSE in the scant number of credits available in the undergraduate degree program. Instead, our aim at the undergraduate level is to provide a foundation for students to be able to learn more, either on their own or as part of a graduate degree program. The field of CSE moves ahead quickly! It is crucial to stay current with new technologies to stay productive.
And the following list of courses
Anticipated FAFSA and WASFA opening date for the 2025 &#8211; 2026 academic year
Any course on the CSE Core Course List
Any graded 400-level majors course (includes 498 &#038; 496 but not 499)
Applicants Admitted to Computer Science or Computer Engineering
Applicants should follow the UW first-year application guidelines; you do not need to craft a computing-focused application!
Applicants who list Computer Science or Computer Engineering as their first-choice major on the UW first-year application will find out if they were directly admitted to the Allen School at the same time that they receive their UW admissions decision. Some Washington residents will receive an offer of direct admission into the Allen School through the Pathways for Inclusive Excellence (PIE) which includes the Allen Scholars Program and the STARS Program. Students are considered for these programs automatically by applying to the Allen School as a first-year student; there are no additional steps needed to be considered for PIE.
Application Deadline: January 31st, 2026
Application Review Criteria
Applications to the Allen School
Applications to UW Listing Computer Science or Computer Engineering as their First-Choice Major
Applied Computational Mathematical Science: Note: starting in spring 2024, no double majors/degrees with Computer Science or Computer Engineering
Apply by the appropriate deadline!
Applying for Graduation
Approved_Science_Courses_sp09
Art in the Allen School
Articulate the importance of interface design and robustness of functionalities in robotics.
Artificial Intelligence
As mentioned previously, the UW Office of Admissions selects students for DTM admission into the Allen School based on criteria developed in partnership with the Allen School. Applicants are evaluated based on both academic achievement and personal characteristics. The academic portion of the review is based on high school grades, strength of schedule including in the senior year, and the rigor of coursework. The personal portion is based on an activities log and the essays in the first-year application. Applicants are strongly encouraged to explain any academic inconsistencies or gaps in their activities section through the writing portions. It is not necessary to take computer programming in high school or to have computing-related work experience. However, if you have access to computing opportunities, we encourage you to take them!
Ask for feedback on your personal statement. You might ask friends or family if it captures the most interesting and important details of who you are. Be open to making changes. Also, address what has changed since your first application. Spend time proofreading. Remember that it is more important for us to hear what you are doing presently and hope to accomplish in the future, rather than details about the first time you sat in front of a computer or played your first video game.
askuwadm@uw.edu
ASTR 301, 321, 322, 323, 423, 480, 480.
Astronomy
At UW, UI and HCI related courses are found in CSE as well as in the Information School , Human Centered Design and Engineering , and the Interaction Design program in the School of Art . There is also a cross-campus alliance of HCI faculty and students called dub &#8212; dub is more oriented toward faculty and grad students, but the dub website is an excellent place to check out the range of HCI activities at UW.
ATMOS: 301, 321, 370, 380, 451, 452, 460.
Atmospheric Science
Attend an info session
Attend the UW Study Abroad fair (typically held in January each year)
Autumn 2006-Spring 2007
Autumn 2007-Spring 2009
Autumn 2024
Autumn 2025
Autumn 2025 Admissions Timeline
Autumn Admissions
Award Papers
Back to top
Back To Top
Before applying for Allen School current UW student admissions, applicants must complete a minimum of 30 graded credits & the Allen School prerequisite courses.
Before You Register
Begin preparing for the UW application by reviewing the writing prompts for the UW first-year application
Below we articulate a few known exceptions or common responses regarding requests to petition. Please review this list in its entirety before requesting an exception.
Bill & Melinda Gates Center
BIOEN
Bioinformatics/computational biology are aimed at knowledge discovery from such data sets.
BIOL 162 (5 credits from Biology AP)
BIOL 180
BIOL 200
BIOL 220
BIOL 325, 333, 340, 354, 355, 356, 401, 402, 403, 405, 407, 408, 409, 411, 412, 413, 414, 415, 425, 426, 427, 433, 434, 435, 437, 440, 441, 442, 443, 444, 446, 452, 454, 455, 459, 462, 463, 464, 471, 472, 473, 474, 475, 476, 477, 479, 480.
Biology
Biology 162 (AP credit)
Biology 180
Biomedical and health informatics works on using electronic biomedical data and information to advance research and improve health.
Box 352350
Box 352355
Brain-computer interfacing involves using signals from the brain to directly control external devices.
Building Directory
Can students in the Allen School pursue a double-major, double-degree, or minor?
Capstone Course List
Capstone Courses
Capstone Goals
Capstones
Capstones - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Capstones 2020-2021
Capstones 2021-2022
Capstones 2022-2023
Capstones 2023-2024
Capstones 2024-2025
Capstones 2025-2026
Capstones are senior-level project courses that allow you to solve a substantial problem with knowledge gained from many areas in computer science and engineering. Students work in teams to define a problem, develop a solution, produce and demonstrate an artifact that solves the problem, and present their work. Class time focuses on the project design and implementation, but it may also include lectures on the practical application of advanced topics. Interdisciplinary projects that require interaction with other departments are encouraged.
Career Resources
Catering Requests
Centers and Initiatives
Check out all types of study abroad programs the UW offers
Check out the Student Stories page with stories and advice from Allen School students who have studied abroad.
Check out UW Study Abroad’s financial aid and scholarship resources and/or meet with a study abroad adviser .
Check with a CSE adviser about courses that are not included in this list, but which require Physics 121, Chemistry 142/145, Biology 180 as a pre-requisite.
CHEM 142, 143, 144, 145, 152, 155, 162, 165, 220, 221, 223, 224, 237, 238, 239, 241, 242, 312, 317, 321, other graded 400 level courses by petition.
Chemistry
Chemistry 142, 143 or 145
Chemistry 142/145
CIEE
Co-requisite(s)
College of Engineering Honors Programs
Common Errors in English
Community Engagement
Complete the Allen School Course Evaluation request form
Completing a minimum of 30 graded credits prior to applying
Completing at least 12 credits as a matriculated student at the Seattle campus of the University of Washington
Completing the Allen School prerequisite requirements
Computational neuroscience seeks to understand how the brain works through computational models and simulation.
Computer Engineering
Computer Engineering [PDF]
Computer Engineering degree program accredited by ABET
Computer Engineering Hardware Specialization (opens in new window)
Computer Engineering majors may also consider:
Computer Engineering Natural Science Requirement
Computer Engineering Software Specialization (opens in new window)
Computer Engineering Spring 2011-Spring 2013 [PDF]
Computer Engineering Spring 2013 &#8211; Spring 2015 [PDF]
Computer Engineering Spring 2015 &#8211; Summer 2022 [PDF]
Computer graphics engineers develop software for creating images,videos, and even 3D worlds. Computer vision engineers analyze 2D, 3D and even 4D data with goals such as object recognition, video analysis, content-based image retrieval, 3D reconstruction and more. Game designers use graphics and HCI skills to create video games for people to play and enjoy. Animation production encompasses the whole process of creating animated films. Our animation capstone sequence is interdisciplinary, including students from other departments.
Computer Science
Computer Science [PDF]
Computer Science &#8211; Data Science Option [PDF]
Computer Science &#8211; Data Science Option Autumn 2016 &#8211; Summer 2022 [PDF]
Computer Science Natural Science Requirement
Computer Science Spring 2011-Spring 2013 [PDF]
Computer Science Spring 2013 &#8211; Summer 2022 [PDF]
Computer Science students who wish to specialize in data-science-focused careers need to take courses that cover the core areas of data science, including algorithms, machine learning, data visualization, data management, and societal implications of data science. To achieve this goal, the Allen School has a new transcriptable option in Data Science to be added to the Computer Science major; students who complete all of the required coursework will have the option listed on their transcript upon graduation . This specialization will ensure that computer science students interested in data-science-related careers get the broad and deep education they need and that they obtain a strong foundation in this fast-growing field.
Computer Science Teaching
Computer security training can also be a valuable complement to anyone working in computer science, since &#8212; unfortunately &#8212; computer security issues arise all too frequently with deployed computer systems.
Computer-security issues span almost all of computer science. Computer-security practitioners work at the hardware level, with embedded systems, with software, and with improving the usability of computer security systems.
Computing + Biology
Computing Specializations
Computing Specializations - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Connect with the Allen School
Connection to other Allen School students who share your academic interests
Consider general requirements needed to graduate instead of just courses needed to apply. For example, finish your math and science courses, work towards a minor or another major, and complete your general education requirements.
Contact & Location Info
Contact Us
Continuation Policy
Core & Elective Course Lists
Cost: Exchanges use a “home tuition model” meaning you pay an exchange fee equivalent to UW tuition to the UW (1.5 quarters of UW tuition for 1 semester abroad and 3 quarters of UW tuition for 2 semesters abroad/for the academic year)
Course
Course Evaluations
Course Evaluations - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Course evaluations can take up to 4-6 weeks after submission of the form
Course Lists
Course meeting dates/times
Course prefix and course number (required)
Course prefix and course number from the school you want to transfer the course (required)
Course website link (required)
Courses
Courses in Computer Science & Engineering
Courses in Electrical Engineering
Courses in Human Centered Design & Engineering
Courses in Informatics
Courses in Mathematics
Courses in Medical Education & Biomedical Informatics
Courses in Statistics
Courses not on this list may be applied toward CSE Senior Electives if approved by the CSE Undergraduate Faculty Advisor. If you would like to petition to have a class count toward (senior) electives, please contact the undergraduate advisers .
Courses that meet the Allen School&#8217;s Computer Engineering natural science requirement include:
Courses: Complete general education requirements (many A&#038;H and SSc options)
Courses: Students typically take a mix of CSE core and CSE elective courses, language courses, and/or non-CSE courses through these programs.
Courses: Wide variety of options, no guarantee you’ll be able to take CSE courses
Credit by exam (such as AP or IB), while transferrable, is not considered graded credit and cannot count toward this requirement.
CS Lab &#038; Technical Support
CSE
CSE 122, CSE 123, or CSE 143
CSE 123 (or CSE 143)
CSE 123 or 143
CSE 190: Security
CSE 190M: Web Development
CSE 300-Level Courses & their Prerequisites
CSE 311 Petitions
CSE 311: Foundations I: This is a discrete math/logic course with little coding. 311 is a prerequisite for 332 (Data Abstractions) and 312 (Foundations of Computing II). All new students should take 311 in their first quarter if possible.
CSE 331 Petitions
CSE 331: Software Design and Implementation : A coding-oriented class, required for CS and recommended for CE. This is a fine class to take your first, second or third quarter in the class. It&#8217;s valuable before internships.
CSE 331: Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 333: Embedded Systems, Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 340: Interactive Systems : An exciting new elective that counts toward the CSE core courses .
CSE 341: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Systems Development, Software Engineering, Web Development
CSE 341: Programming Languages : An elective that counts toward the CSE core courses . Most CSE majors take this! Not offered every quarter.
CSE 344: Databases, ICTD, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Web Development
CSE 351 Hardware/Software Interface
CSE 351: Hardware/Software Interface : A coding-oriented class. CE majors should take it in their first quarter, and many CS majors should consider it for their first quarter. CSE 351 focuses on how computer programs actually run on CPUs. You should take CSE 391 (a 1-cr class) concurrently.
CSE 369: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, Systems Development
CSE 391: System and Software Tools : A 1-credit seminar introducing important tools for future CSE courses. You should take this with or before CSE 351. Since this is only a 1-credit seminar, most people take this in addition to two &#8220;real&#8221; CSE courses.
CSE 401: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, ICTD, Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 403: Databases, Embedded Systems, Graphics/Vision/Games/Animation, Security, Systems Development, Software Engineering, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction, Web Development
CSE 417: ICTD
CSE 418: ICTD
CSE 419: ICTD
CSE 421 Introduction to Algorithms (3)
CSE 421: Data Mining, Graphics/Vision/Games/Animation, Hardware Design/Engineering, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Mathematical Foundations, MS/PhD in CSE, Robotics &#038; Control Systems, Scientific Computing, Security, Software Engineering
CSE 427 Computational Biology (3)
CSE 427: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 428 A: Computational Biology Capstone
CSE 428: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 428: Computational Biology Capstone
CSE 428A Computational Biology Capstone
CSE 431: Mathematical Foundations
CSE 440: Databases, Embedded Systems, ICTD, Security, Software Engineering, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
CSE 441: User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
CSE 442 Data Visualization (4)
CSE 444 Database Systems Internals (4)
CSE 444: Databases, Data Mining, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Security, Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 446 Machine Learning (4)
CSE 446: Databases, Data Mining, Graphics/Vision/Games/Animation, Hardware Design/Engineering, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Robotics &#038; Control Systems, Security, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction, Web Development
CSE 447 Natural Language Processing (4)
CSE 451: Databases, Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, MS/PhD in CSE, Scientific Computing, Security, Systems Development, Software EngineeringUser Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
CSE 455 Computer Vision (4)
CSE 455: Vision, Robotics &#038; Control Systems
CSE 456: Animation Production
CSE 456/458/459/460 (Animation Production)
CSE 457: Graphics, Games, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
CSE 458: Graphics, Animation Production
CSE 459: Animation Production
CSE 460: Animation Capstone
CSE 460: Animation Capstone &#8211; Barbara Mones (Note: requires application and admission in summer)
CSE 460: Animation Production
CSE 461: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, ICTD, Scientific Computing, Security, Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 467: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering
CSE 471: Scientific Computing, Security, Systems Development
CSE 473: Data Mining, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Robotics &#038; Control Systems
CSE 473: Vision
CSE 474: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, ICTD, Robotics &#038; Control Systems, Security, Systems Development
CSE 475 Embedded Systems Capstone
CSE 475: Embedded Systems Capstone
CSE 475: Hardware Systems
CSE 476: Embedded Systems, ICTD
CSE 477: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, ICTD
CSE 478 Autonomous Robotics (4)
CSE 481 A OS Capstone
CSE 481 A: Neural Engineering Capstone
CSE 481 C: Capstone Software &#8211; Robotics
CSE 481 C: Neural Engineering Capstone &#8211; Rajesh Rao
CSE 481 C: Robotics Capstone
CSE 481 Capstone Software Design
CSE 481 Community Networking Capstone
CSE 481 D Games Capstone
CSE 481 D: Games Capstone
CSE 481 D: Games Capstone &#8211; Zoran Popovic
CSE 481 Data Science Capstone
CSE 481 H: HCI Capstone
CSE 481 H: HCI Capstone &#8211; Reinecke
CSE 481 M: ML Capstone
CSE 481 M: NLP Capstone
CSE 481 N: Capstone Software &#8211; NLP
CSE 481 N: Natural Language Processing Capstone &#8211; Noah Smith
CSE 481 N: NLP Capstone
CSE 481 Networks &#038; Mobile Systems Capstone
CSE 481 P: Social Computing Capstone
CSE 481 S: Security Capstone
CSE 481 S: Security Capstone &#8211; Kohno
CSE 481 Social Computing Capstone
CSE 481 V : Virtual and Augmented Reality &#8211; Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman
CSE 481 V Virtual and Augmented Reality Capstone
CSE 481 V: VR Capstone
CSE 481: Data Science Capstone
CSE 481: Embedded Systems, ICTD, Systems Development
CSE 481: Game Design for Global Challenges
CSE 481: Human-AI Interaction
CSE 481: Human-AI Interaction Capstone
CSE 481: Networks and Mobile AI Capstone
CSE 481C Capstone Software &#8211; Robotics
CSE 481D: Games
CSE 481DS: Data Science Capstone &#8211; Tim Althoff
CSE 481i: Sound and Media Capstone &#8211; Bruce Hemingway
CSE 481N NLP Capstone
CSE 481S Security Capstone
CSE 481V Virtual and Augmented Reality Capstone
CSE 482 A: Accessibility Capstone
CSE 482 K: Technology for Resource Constrained Environments &#8211; Richard Anderson
CSE 482: Accessibility Capstone &#8211; Anat Caspi
CSE 482B: Capstone Software Design to Empower Underserved Populations
CSE 482K Technology for Resource Constrained Environments
CSE 484 Computer Security (4)
CSE 484: Databases, Embedded Systems, Security, Systems Development, Software Engineering, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction, Web Development
CSE 486 Synthetic Biology (3)
CSE 486: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 487: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 488: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 490D: Embedded Systems, ICTD
CSE 493 Special Topics Courses (4)
CSE 498/496: MS/PhD in CSE
CSE 500 Level Course Petitions
CSE 500-level courses, including 590-level seminars, require permission of the instructor. Email is usually sufficient. Department colloquia are open to the public.
CSE 590: MS/PhD in CSE
CSE 5XX: MS/PhD in CSE
CSE Honors
CSE is an ever-growing field, and a CSE degree provides an amazing breadth of opportunities. To meet the needs and career goals of our unique students, we have designed our degree requirements to be quite flexible, particularly at the 400-level. We want our students to talk to advisers and professors to determine what courses they will find most useful and enjoyable.
CSE Majors
CSE Pre-majors
CSE Satisfactory Progress Policy to understand expectations
CSE Senior Electives Courses
CSE Teaching Schedule for long-term planning
CSE_Senior_Electives_sp09
CSE/EE 475 A: Embedded Systems Capstone &#8211; ECE Faculty
CSE/EE 475: Embedded Systems (Taught by CSE) &#8211; Bruce Hemingway
CSE/EE 475: Embedded Systems Capstone &#8211; ECE Faculty
Current site
Current UW Admissions
Current UW Admissions - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Current UW Admissions Statistics
Current UW Application Process
Current UW Student Admissions
Current UW undergraduate student
Current UW undergraduate students attending a UW-affiliated study abroad program
Curriculum
Data
Data Mining
Data Mining, ICTD, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
Data Science and Society Seminar:
Data Science Option
Data Science Option Requirements
Databases
Date
Dates for information sessions are posted on our information sessions webpage .
December 1
Decisions
Declaring CSE Honors
Degree Overview
Degree Planning & Requirements
Degree Planning & Requirements - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Degree Requirements
Degree Requirements Petition
Description coming soon!
Description: Accessibility is quickly emerging as a leading consideration for product design and engineering. Disability is part of the human condition – almost everyone will be temporarily or permanently impaired at some point in life, and those who survive to old age will experience increasing difficulties. Disability is complex and heterogeneous, and the technological interventions to accommodate different abilities are wide ranging and vary with context. Many familiar technologies like voice recognition, text-to-speech, and gaze detection were initially engineered to assist people with disabilities gain more access and increase participation in daily life. Students will work in interdisciplinary project teams to apply design and engineering skills to create technology solutions that increase independence and improve quality of life for people of all abilities.
Description: Accessibility is quickly emerging as a leading consideration for product design and engineering. Disability is part of the human condition &ndash; almost everyone will be temporarily or permanently impaired at some point in life, and those who survive to old age will experience increasing difficulties. Disability is complex and heterogeneous, and the technological interventions to accommodate different abilities are wide ranging and vary with context. Many familiar technologies like voice recognition, text-to-speech, and gaze detection were initially engineered to assist people with disabilities gain more access and increase participation in daily life. Students will work in interdisciplinary project teams that include community members with expertise on project needs. Groups will follow participatory design practices and apply design and engineering skills to create technology solutions that increase independence and improve quality of life for people of all abilities. Teams will complete one end-to-end product iteration cycle: ideation, design, specification refinement, prototype and usability testing
Description: Algorithms that deal with text or speech, either as inputs as outputs, are increasingly part of our everyday lives. Systems that translate accurately between languages, read many documents and summarize or answer questions about them, and even hold conversations with us, are on the horizon. Successfully designing and implementing such systems requires understanding and integration of ideas from linguistics, statistics, and computation, and testing them rigorously requires a strong grasp of experimental methodology. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a natural language processing problem and with crafting and evaluating a solution.
Description: Apply the knowledge gained in previous animation courses to produce a short animated film. Topics include scene planning, digital cinematography, creature and hard surface modeling, animatics and basics of character animation, and rendering techniques.
Description: Capstone design experience. Prototype a substantial project mixing hardware, software, and communications. Focuses on embedded processors, programmable logic devices, and emerging platforms for the development of digital systems. Provides a comprehensive experience in specification, design, and management of contemporary embedded systems.
Description: coming soon&#8230;
Description: Coming soon&#8230;
Description: Create cool and interesting projects where you get to use various mobile systems and networking technologies. The capstone will include background material on Android programming, networking as well as how various sensors like GPS, IMU, acoustic work to enable tracking, localization, augmented reality and ranging applications.
Description: Data analysis is a central activity for scientific research and is increasingly a critical part of decision making in government and business. However, producing reliable data analysis outcomes is challenging since the decisions made throughout the analysis process can dramatically affect the eventual outcome. The Data Science Capstone focuses on the complete end-to-end process of data analysis performed with code: the iterative, and often exploratory, steps that analysts go through to turn data into results. Our focus is not limited to statistical modeling or machine learning, but rather the complete process, including transformation, exploration, modeling, and evaluation choices. Students will work in groups of three or four on a single project that will tie together and apply previous experiences from CSE 312, 332, 446, 442, 344, and other classes. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate machine learning, visualization and database methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be little lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end data analysis process from transformation and exploration of data to modeling and evaluation. Your group will brainstorm on a project during the first week, before collaboratively exploring the data and implementing a complete data analysis workflow. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a data science question, and with crafting and evaluating a data science process to answer that question. CSE students should have completed CSE 332 and CSE 312, and at least one of CSE 446, CSE 442, or CSE 344. There are no other requirements for participating in this capstone class.
Description: Data analysis is a central activity for scientific research and is increasingly a critical part of decision making in government and business. However, producing reliable data analysis outcomes is challenging since the decisions made throughout the analysis process can dramatically affect the eventual outcome. This Data Science Capstone focuses on the complete end-to-end process of data analysis performed with code: the iterative, and often exploratory, steps that analysts go through to turn data into results. Our focus is not limited to statistical modeling or machine learning, but rather the complete process, including transformation, exploration, modeling, and evaluation choices.
Description: Design, build and present a prototype device or software tool that solves an important problem in neural engineering. Examples include interfaces based on combining AI with brain-, muscle-, and/or eye-tracking signals to control computers or robotic devices, virtual reality approaches to improving neural function, and machine learning-based software tools for analyzing large-scale neural data.
Description: Designs and implements a software tool or software analysis for an important problem in computational molecular biology.
Description: Each team analyzes a wicked problem and develops a game that stimulates player engagement with the problem and approaches to solving it. Tools and techniques include Python, large language models, multiplayer supports, problem-solving theory from AI, formulation frameworks, simulation models, iterative design, Scrum-based agile development, and playtesting.
Description: In this capstone course, students will work in groups to apply software engineering and system design skills they have learned over their four years in computer science towards building a novel social computing system to address a social challenge. We will follow a human-centered design process for groups to ideate, prototype, test, implement, and showcase their novel system. Along the way, students will gain a broad understanding of the current major pressing issues and state of the art of knowledge in social computing, while taking a critical lens toward social computing systems they use every day. Along with the capstone project, we will have readings, group discussions, reflections, and guest speakers working in social computing.
Description: Public Interest Technology Capstone Experience. Develop tools and technologies in partnership with communities around Seattle and Tacoma that assist in small organizations running Internet access networks. Focus on core network development as well as HCI and user-facing systems. Provides a comprehensive experience designing, building, and deploying technology in the real world with the goal of doing social good.
Description: Student teams design and implement a software project involving multiple areas of the CSE curriculum. Course emphasizes the development process, rather than the product.
Description: Student teams will be tasked with creating a computer security themed product. The work will progress from product conception to requirements to design to implementation to evaluation. Along the way, students will incorporate key computer security tools and practices, including threat modeling, penetration testing, and bug fixing. Examples include password managers, censorship resistance systems, and mobile payment systems.
Description: Students will work in groups of three or four on a single project that parallels the experience of delivering an interactive prototype within a company or with a customer. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate HCI methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be little lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end product cycle from design to deployment.
Description: Students will work in small groups (~3 people) to complete an independent machine learning research project in a domain of their choice (e.g., natural language processing; computer vision; medical data; machine learning theory; etc.). The focus will be on honing students&#8217; research skills: formulating problems, picking up relevant technical knowledge, building research codebases, performing experiments and analysis, and writing up their results.
Description: Students will work on a group project that makes use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) to address global needs with an emphasis on developing countries. While ICTs are having an enormous impact on livelihoods worldwide, deployment environments vary dramatically based on available infrastructure and technologies accessible to people. Areas of projects could include: health information systems, data collection technologies, applications for basic mobile phones, user interface design for low literate populations, behavior change communication, voice based social networks, community cellular networks, open source projects for global good, low-cost smartphones, satellite image analysis or mobile financial services targeting domains including health, education, agriculture, finance, and livelihood.
Description: Students will work on group project that use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) to address global needs with an emphasis on developing countries. While ICTs are having an enormous impact on livelihoods worldwide, deployment environments vary dramatically based on available infrastructure and technologies accessible to people. Areas of projects could include: health information systems, data collection technologies, applications for basic mobile phones, user interface design for low literate populations, behavior change communication, voice based social networks, community cellular networks, open source projects for global good, low-cost smartphones, satellite image analysis or mobile financial services targeting domains including health, education, agriculture, finance, and livelihood.
Description: Students work in substantial teams to design, implement, and release a software project involving multiple areas of the CSE curriculum. Emphasis is placed on the development process itself, rather than on the product. Teams are expected to develop a work plan, and to track and document their progress against it.
Description: TBA
Description: The &#8220;Networks and Mobile AI Capstone&#8221; course is designed to empower students to innovate at the intersection of mobile computing, wearables, on-device artificial intelligence, and networking. This course provides an opportunity to design and implement AI applications optimized for mobile devices, addressing challenges such as computational efficiency, real-time processing, and energy consumption. We will explore interesting applications like speech translation, mobile LLMs and multi-modal LLMs in the context of mobile and wearable devices and systems.
Description: The main goal of this course is to open up new career options in robotics for computer science and engineering students. To that end, the course will teach you the basics of robotics and give you implementation experience. You will learn to use libraries and tools within the most popular robot programming framework ROS (Robot Operating System). We will touch on robot motion, navigation, perception, planning, and interaction through mini-lectures, labs, and assignments, eventually integrating these components to create autonomous or semi-autonomous robotic functionalities. The project will give you team-work experience with large scale software integration and it will get you thinking about opportunities for using robots to address societal challenges.
Description: The main goal of this course is to open up new career options in robotics for computer science and engineering students. To that end, the course will teach you the basics of robotics and give you implementation experience. You will learn to use libraries and tools within the most popular robot programming framework ROS (Robot Operating System). We will touch on robot motion, navigation, perception, planning, and interaction through mini-lectures, labs, and assignments, eventually integrating these components to create autonomous or semi-autonomous robotic functionalities. The project will give you team-work experience with large scale software integration and it will get you thinking about opportunities for using robots to address societal challenges. At the end of the quarter students are expected to be able to:
Description: This capstone explores the design and development of interactive technologies that integrate language models in providing AI-based interactive capabilities. Students will explore creating human-AI interactions that address real-world needs and tasks, applying principles from human-centered design in support of those interactions. Course activities will emphasize student-led discussions of current challenges and approaches, a group project exploring vertical prototyping of human-AI interactions, and examination of and reflection on designing with and for this emerging space.
Description: This capstone will build projects utilizing computer audio and video techniques for human interfacing, sound and video recording and playback, encoding and decoding, synchronization, sound synthesis, recognition, and analysis/resynthesis. Projects may contain any types of media. Students will work in teams to design, implement, and release a software project utilizing some of the techniques such as those in the links below.
Description: This class will provide students with an intensive 10-week experience in successfully completing a challenging, well-scoped research project.
Description: This course contributes to the following ABET outcomes:
Description: This course is intended to give students a thorough understanding of design and implementation issues for modern operating systems. We will cover key design issues in implementing an operating system, such as memory management, inter-core synchronization, scheduling, protection, inter-process communication, device drivers, and file systems, paying particular attention to system designs that differ from the traditional monolithic arrangements of Unix/Linux and Windows.
Description: This Data Science Capstone focuses on the complete end-to-end process of data analysis performed with code: the iterative, and often exploratory, steps that analysts go through to turn data into results. Our focus is not limited to statistical modeling or machine learning, but rather the complete process, including transformation, exploration, modeling, and evaluation choices. Students will work in groups of four on a single project that will tie together and apply previous experiences from CSE 312, 332, 446, 442, 344, and other classes. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate machine learning, visualization and database methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be limited lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end data analysis process from transformation and exploration of data to modeling and evaluation. Your group will brainstorm on a project during the first week, before collaboratively exploring the data and implementing a complete data analysis workflow. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a data science question, and with crafting and evaluating a data science process to answer that question.
Description: This Data Science Capstone focuses on the complete end-to-end process of data analysis performed with code: the iterative, and often exploratory, steps that analysts go through to turn data into results. Our focus is not limited to statistical modeling or machine learning, but rather the complete process, including transformation, exploration, modeling, and evaluation choices. Students will work in groups of four on a single project that will tie together and apply previous experiences from CSE 312, 332, 446, 442, 344, and other classes. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate machine learning, visualization and database methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be limited lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end data analysis process from transformation and exploration of data to modeling and evaluation. Your group will brainstorm on a project during the first week, before collaboratively exploring the data and implementing a complete data analysis workflow. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a data science question, and with crafting and evaluating a data science process to answer that question. question.
Description: Virtual and Augmented reality are promising technologies that are certain to make an impact on the future of business and entertainment. In this capstone, students will work in small project teams to build applications and prototype systems using state of the art Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) technology. Seattle is a nexus of VR tech, with Oculus Research, Valve, Microsoft (hololens), Google (cardboard, jump), and teams in the area. We will be developing on the latest VR/AR headsets and platforms, and will bring in leading VR experts for lectures and to supervise student projects. Students will experience the end-to-end product cycle from design to deployment, and learn about VR/AR technology and applications. The capstone culminates in a highly anticipated demo day where the students demonstrate their creations to other students, faculty and industry luminaries. ( See Video )
Description: Virtual and Augmented reality are promising technologies that are certain to make an impact on the future of business and entertainment. In this capstone, students will work in small project teams to build applications and prototype systems using state of the art Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) technology. Seattle is a nexus of VR tech, with Oculus Research, Valve, Microsoft (hololens), Google (cardboard, jump), and teams in the area. We will be developing on the latest VR/AR headsets and platforms, and will bring in leading VR experts for lectures and to supervise student projects. Students will experience the end-to-end product cycle from design to deployment, and learn about VR/AR technology and applications. The capstone culminates in a highly anticipated demo day where the students demonstrate their creations to other students, faculty and industry luminaries. (See Video)
Despite substantial growth in capacity, there continue to be far more applicants who meet all of the admissions criteria than the Allen School can accommodate. Applicants are encouraged to choose a second choice major on campus if there is another field (besides Computer Science or Computer Engineering) that they would consider studying; there is no penalty for selecting a second choice major. Allen School applicants cannot be considered for direct admission twice, so we recommend choosing a major outside of the Allen School as a second choice. There are many other majors at the UW that involve computing! As a reminder, students who list another major as their first choice and an Allen School major as their second choice will not be considered for DTM admission into the Allen School.
Direct to Major (First-Year) Admissions
Direct to Major (First-Year) Admissions - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Direct to Major Application
Discrimination, Harassment & Sexual Misconduct Policy
Distinguished Lecture Series
Do you expect students to have had programming experience in high school?
Domestic Non-Residents
Double Majors
DTM Admissions Statistics
DTM offers many benefits to selected students including (but not limited to):
Duration of the course (total weeks in class & hours per week in class) (required)
DXARTS/MUSIC
Each student who accepts admission into the Allen School&#8217;s Computer Science and Computer Engineering degree programs agrees to the provisions of our Satisfactory Progress Policy . This policy describes the level of academic performance required for students to continue in good standing in the school, including course completion and minimum grade requirements, and the procedure we follow to ensure that students are meeting these goals through the Review of Progress.
Earth & Space Sciences
ECE Course Petitions:
Education
EE
EE 205: Embedded Systems
EE 205: Introduction to Signal Conditioning : CE majors can take 215 instead if the timing of 205 does not fit your schedule, but 205 is strongly preferred.
EE 215: Embedded Systems, Robotics &#038; Control Systems
EE 417: Embedded Systems
EE 440: Graphics/Vision/Games/Animation
EE 442: Embedded Systems
EE 476: Hardware Design/Engineering
EE 477: Hardware Design/Engineering
EE 484: Embedded Systems
EE205 / EE215 Signal Conditioning
Efforts must culminate in an interesting, working artifact.
either E E 205 or E E 215; either E E 271 or CSE 369
Eligibility :
Eligibility:
Eligibility: Current Allen School students only
Eligibility: Open to all majors
Eligibility: Open to all UW undergraduates
Embedded Systems
Embedded systems are designed to fit into the fabric of the environment around us. An embedded system is distinguished from a general-purpose system by some very important properties: (1) an embedded system usually interfaces computing with the physical world (sensing and actuation); (2) it is not intended to be reprogrammed by the user although some parameters may be specified; and (3) it has user interfaces that are optimized for the task so as to be as seamless as possible. A good example is an anti-lock breaking system in a car where sensors measure the performance of the brakes and a micro-controller computes the pressure to actuate on the brake disks; the manufacturer may occasionally update the software but not the car owner; and the user interface is the simple brake pedal with which drivers are already familiar. The distinctions between embedded and general-purpose systems are not always so precise. A modern mobile phone is certainly programmable (the user can download new apps as with a PC) but there are components such as the GSM module (performing the communication between the phone and cellular infrastructure) whose software elements are rarely changed or upgraded. Similarly, the GPS module of the phone performs the specific function of determining a position on Earth from signals sent by orbiting satellites. An embedded system designer is likely to focus on these task-specific modules while coordinating their use in the more general-purpose phone. Other excellent examples of embedded systems are modern video game controllers that use a user&#8217;s physical gestures (sensed through embedded accelerometers or cameras) to control game elements. Embedded systems designers and engineers work in a variety of industries and on varied applications ranging from medical instrumentation and aerospace to mobile devices and smart environments.
Emeritus Faculty
Employment Opportunities
Engineering: While double majors are not allowed between Computer Engineering and any other Engineering degree, occasionally, on rare exceptions, a student may pursue a Computer Science degree along with another Engineering degree. Please note however, there are no double degrees with any Allen School major and the Electrical and Computer Engineering degree.
English
ENGR
Enter search text
Enumerate challenging problems in robotics;
EPFL Exchange
EPFL in Lausanne, Switzerland
ESS 311, 313, 403, 413, 414, 415, 424, 431, 437, 438, 458, 464, 466, 467, 471.
ETH Exchange
ETH in Zurich, Switzerland
Events Calendar
Explain basics of robot navigation, perception, planning, interaction;
Explore funding options
Faculty Honors &#038; Awards
Faculty Leadership
Faculty/Staff Directories
Fall 2020
Fall 2021
Fall 2022
Fall 2023
FAQ
February 28
First-year admissions decisions, including Allen School DTM decisions, are released
Five credits of English composition
Follow the Allen School
For any general questions about study abroad , please schedule an appointment with a UW Study Abroad adviser or contact their team .
For any questions related to Allen School exchange programs , please feel free to reach out to the Allen School Undergraduate Advising team (ugrad-adviser@cs.washington.edu).
For each specialization, we list the most important elective courses. This does not imply that other courses are not equally important, but these are the key courses that cover topics that define the specialization. We also list other recommended courses for each specialty.
For graduate applications, various factors are considered. In rough priority order: recommendations from faculty who worked directly with you on a research project; recommendations from faculty who taught you in a class or two, or for whom you have TA&#8217;ed; verbal/math GRE score; GPA; personal statement. In particular, the GPA is not particularly correlated with success in graduate school, except in one respect: most graduate courses run at two to three times the speed of a typical undergraduate course, so graduate schools do consider whether you would be able to keep up. Some schools are now conducting phone interviews of some candidates; for this it helps to attend research seminars (590) in your area of research, and to practice by talking to graduate students about their work and your work. Finally, to complete a Ph.D. literally requires you to write a book, and so there is a huge advantage to becoming an accomplished writer before entering graduate school.
For more details view the Guide to Direct to Major Admissions (PDF)
For more information about the Allen School departmental exchange, please visit the general information page.
For some students who are denied admission to the Allen School on their first application, applying a second time may make sense. Reapplying does not automatically improve your chance of admission, and we do not consider previous applications when reviewing a students application for the current admissions round. You must identify what specifically kept you from being competitive the first time, and resolve these issues. Note, however, that the primary reason most students are denied is that space is limited; the Allen School denies many very strong applicants and sometimes there is no specific issue.
For students going on a UW-affiliated study abroad program, you may get to choose which classes to take abroad. The course options and availability will depend on the program. We always recommend meeting with your departmental academic adviser to discuss how studying abroad could fit in with your degree plan and graduation timeline. Current Allen School undergraduates can meet with their assigned academic adviser here .
For students who decide to reapply, here are some things to consider:
Friends &#038; Supporters
from the Spring 2023 & Autumn 2023 Application Cycles
from the Spring 2024 & Autumn 2024 Application Cycles
from the Spring 2025 & Autumn 2025 Application Cycles
Full CSE Degree Requirements , including links to curriculum and electives lists
Future Students
General Advice
Generally speaking, most students should plan to take the 400 level courses in the Allen School. There are exceptions however for students who have advanced understanding to occasionally take CSE 500 level courses. Typically a PhD Breadth 500 level course where a student has not previously taken the undergraduate version of the course can be allowed to count as a Core course. Note that this is only for PhD breadth courses. If a course is listed on our breadth requirements for PhD students they are often (not always) allowed as a Core Course substitution. Sometimes there are restrictions however on whether or not a student has taken the 400 level version of the course. An example would be that you are allowed to take 421 and 521 because they differ enough to both count. However there are other courses where you are NOT allowed to receive credit for both, i.e. 446 and 546 for example. It’s best to check with an adviser about your long term plans before requesting an exception. We hope to have an explicit list in the future, but for now, you should check with an adviser.
Get Directions
GitLab
Give an oral presentation, arranged by you and your faculty advisor, on the honors project. You should also arrange for at least five additional people (e.g., other students, family, etc.) to attend your presentation.
Given the breadth of the agenda above, no one curriculum will suit every student, so be flexible, talk to advisers and faculty, and consider the following courses:
Good math skills and the desire to build complex systems that interact with the world are important preconditions for success in robotics.
grad-advising at cs.washington.edu
Graduate (Ph.D.) Advising:
Graduate Education
Graduate School
Graduation is not automatic. Generally, you should file for graduation two or three quarters before you plan to graduate (for example, file during autumn quarter if you plan to graduate at the end of spring quarter). It&#8217;s important to follow the Policy & Procedures for applying for graduation carefully.
Grand Challenges
Graphics, Vision, Games, and Animation
Guaranteed to study Computer Science or Computer Engineering at the UW&#8217;s Seattle campus (no competitive application process later)
Handbooks/Degree Requirements 1977-2001
Hardware Design/Engineering
Hardware designers implement computational devices using a variety of technologies at a wide range of levels. For example, computer architects design and implement processors using high-level components such as memories, registers, and arithmetic components, while embedded systems designers assemble application-specific systems using microcontrollers, memories, wired and wireless communication components and a large variety of sensor devices. Other hardware engineers design hardware components and systems at the gate or transistor level using FPGA (Field-Programmable Gate Array) or VLSI chip technology. Today&#8217;s FPGAs allow designers to construct highly optimized hardware systems for computationally intensive applications like image processing (e.g. face and object recognition and transcoding), encryption/decryption and data compression using cheap and reusable hardware. The area of Computer-Aided Design involves designing algorithms for compiling high-level hardware descriptions into low-level circuit implementations.
HCDE 417: User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
Helpful advice, information, and answers to our most frequently asked questions.
Helpful Information
Here are some points to keep in mind about the Allen School admission process:
Here are some resources to consult to ensure you submit a statement of the highest quality.
High school students who are dual-enrolled at a Washington state community college as a Running Start Student can also schedule a virtual appointment via Zoom with someone from our recruitment team. We are happy to provide advice but cannot make an academic plan for you.
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 154, 403, 440, 451, 461, 484
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 190M, 403, 444
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 331, 333, 451, 461, 484, distributed systems, software capstone (CSE 481)
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 331, 403, software capstone
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 333, 369, EE 371, 451, 461, 474, capstone: 477
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 344, 440, capstone: 490D (or 476, 477, 481 depending on interests)
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 344, 444, 451, 484, 446
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 369, CSE/EE 371 467, 474, 477
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 431
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 461, 471
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 427/428 (Computational Biology, 486/487/488 (Synthetic Biology)
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 440, 441; also any capstone courses in related areas, such as computing for the developing world or computer support for people with disabilities
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 446, 455, 473 &#038; STAT 391
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 446, 473, 421 &#038; STAT 391
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 457/458 (Graphics), CSE 455/473 (Vision), CSE 457/481D (Games),
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 492T, CSE 590E, EDUC 251, EDC&#038;I 351
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 498/496 (research), 400-level courses in area of interest
Home
Homework or final exams (optional)
How are applications to the Allen School evaluated?
How do I know if I am admitted to the Allen School through the DTM pathway?
How is the personal statement evaluated, and what should I discuss in my personal statement?
How to Apply
However, if you are absolutely certain that you want to major in Computer Science or Computer Engineering and do not receive an offer of DTM admission, you should strongly consider attending another university.
However, many students find some structure and guidance useful. Degree requirements are naturally important, but what you must take to graduate differs from what you ought to take to achieve your goals. It may be unclear which courses are particularly relevant for some of the more common job titles or career paths you may be considering.
However, Running Start students may also be interested in pursuing courses that would help meet degree requirements to accelerate their time to degree. The degree requirements for both the Computer Science and Computer Engineering majors are available on our website . Note that there are no prerequisite courses needed to apply to the Allen School as a first-year student.
Human-Centered Computing
I am a Running Start, how do I know if my class will transfer?
i f Computer Science major (choose one): PHYS 121, BIOL 180, or CHEM 142 or a course from the approved list
If a student completes EE 215 that can use that to replace EE 205, however EE 205 is strongly encouraged for our CE majors
If a student completes EE 271, they can use that to replace CSE 369
if Computer Engineering major: PHYS 121
If the course has been completed, include a copy of your transfer institution transcript (unofficial is okay, but this should not be your UW unofficial transcript) (required if applicable)
If the course has not been completed yet and/or you do not have your UW Study Abroad Credit Evaluation form yet, upon completion of your program, you will need to initiate the credit conversion process with the UW Study Abroad office. Once you have your prepared spreadsheet, please send it to CSEevals@cs.washington.edu to have the course updated appropriately according to the outcome of this petition.
If the course is from a non-Washington state community college or it is not listed on the UW equivalency guide, please see the following information for getting a course evaluated.
If you are a senior, file for graduation to get Graduating Senior Priority during your registration. After filing, you will get two quarters of priority registration which will allow you to register before anyone else (including other seniors who have not yet filed for graduation).
If you are pursuing a double major or double degree, you will need to make an appointment with your other department, as well. If you have a minor, we will check your minor requirements at your CSE graduation appointment. Visit our section on applying for graduation (CSE NetID required) to learn the steps you need to take as you prepare to say goodbye to the Allen School.
If you do not meet the honors thesis requirements, you will not graduate with honors even if you have successfully completed nine credits of research. In many cases, the faculty will not issue grades for honors research until the entire project is finished and approved.
If you have any questions about university-wide exchanges, please contact the UW Study Abroad office to learn more.
If you have completed or plan to complete a Computer Science course from a Washington State Community College or Technical College, please refer to the UW Transfer Equivalency Guide .
If you have MATH 300 completed, you can take CSE 311 and CSE 332 at the same time. Your Allen School adviser can help you register since you won’t have CSE 311 pre-req credit yet.
If you have taken other related courses, list those here.
If you have trouble registering due to prerequisites, contact an adviser for assistance.
If you have trouble taking tests or organizing your time, consider talking to a counselor at the Counseling Center about test-anxiety, test-taking tips, or time management.
If you plan to apply to CSE, your first goal is to complete the prerequisites while working on general requirements and exploring related majors . Review our full degree requirements and our admissions application guidelines .
If you think you will not be able to graduate due to scheduling issues, contact an adviser.
If you would like to discuss course planning or have other admission questions, please book an appointment to meet with a Peer Adviser , or attend Quick Questions to chat with an Allen School Academic Adviser (held Monday-Friday), see the Advising Calendar ). Additionally, all prospective students are highly encouraged to attend a current UW student information session , held on the second Tuesday of each month via Zoom. Please reach out to peer-adviser@cs.washington.edu if you have any questions.
If you would like to schedule a 1:1 review appointment (in-person or virtual) All in-person appointments will be held in the Bill & Melinda Gates Center building (CSE2), in the undergraduate student services suite on the first floor. Please note our new appointment policy ( found on this page ) which was made in an attempt to equitably support as many prospective and current Allen School students as we can. Students may only schedule a maximum of three peer advising appointments per quarter and no more than one appointment in any 14 day period (2 week period).
If you would like to speak to an adviser, you can check out the Undergraduate Academic Affairs Advising in Mary Gates Hall.
If your grades in a key area (math, science, English, or CSE) are below the range that is typically competitive for the Allen School, you might improve your application by taking more-advanced classes in the same area. If you have not maintained consistently strong grades across multiple quarters, evaluate the options you have to create stability and work hard at maintaining strong grades. If you tend to pay attention only to the courses that interest you at the expense of everything else, focus on taking a more balanced approach to your coursework.
Image Credits
Important Resources
In a fast moving technical domain like computer science and engineering, continuing education (either formally or informally through self-directed learning) is a necessity &#8212; the courses of studies listed below are intended to help you get started in a topic. They are by no means a complete set of everything you need to know to have a successful career in any of these areas.
In an effort to support prospective current UW students who are applying to the Allen School, we are excited to offer the following resources:
In evaluating transcripts, we look not only at your grades , but at how many courses you have taken each quarter; circumstances (such as employment or activities) that may limit the number and types of courses taken, and the difficulty of each quarter as a whole (insofar as we have access to that information). For example, do you take balanced yet challenging course loads? Are you pursuing honors courses? Negative elements might include a pattern of repeating classes, multiple dropped, withdrawn, or S/NS courses, or selecting schedules with overlapping content.
In general students should plan to take the required degree requirements. In some cases, a student may petition to take a different course in place of a stated degree requirement. This usually requires either a conversation with your assigned adviser in the Allen School, or sometimes it requires further approval with an official petition that would then be reviewed by the Director of Student Services and the Faculty Undergraduate Program Chair.
In many nations around the world, computing systems are seeing a radically different development and evolution than what has happened in heavily industrialized nations. For example, the dominant computing device is the mobile phone rather than the laptop or desktop. Phones are more mobile, more easily powered where the power infrastructure is less developed, and have communication capability for both voice and data (SMS and GPRS). Arguably, the phone is the truly personal computer that everyone around the world carries with them. A new engineering discipline is emerging that solves problems using appropriate technology for the many environments around the world that have many fewer resources than our own. It often explores a very different range of designs and solutions than what might be appropriate within our familiar environment. The field of ICTD focuses on deploying technology to help spur economic and social development as well as improving health and education services. Application areas cover improving public health (both clinic and community outreach efforts), educational applications (traditional schools as well as adult education), helping illiterate populations bridge the digital divide, and facilitating financial instruments that operate with the smaller amounts of poorer economies. ICTD systems must carefully account for economic, cultural, and language aspects of the communities and users where they are deployed. ICTD is one of the more inter-disciplinary branches of CSE.
In Memoriam
In order to ensure the honors designation will be marked on your diploma, thesis submission is due no later than the last day of finals during the quarter in which you plan to graduate. Earlier submissions are encouraged.
In-person or virtual 1:1 personal statement review appointments (RSVP required, space is limited)
In-person personal statement group workshops offered in January (RSVP required, space is limited)
In-Person Personal Statement Workshops
Incoming Exchange Students
Industry Affiliates
INFO 343: Web Development
INFO 344: Web Development
INFO 360: ICTD
INFO 380: ICTD
Information required will include:
Information Sessions
Informations & Communications Technologies for Development (ICTD)
Interaction with the Physical World
Interactions with Biology, Bioengineering, Medicine & Genomics
Interdisciplinary Offerings
Interested in starting early? The UW writing prompts are available online at any time!
Internal Resources
Internal Web
International Students
Is there a minimum GPA to apply for DTM admission?
It is important to note that the admissions rubric is reviewed and updated each year. In the past, we would post the rubric at the conclusion of all academic cycles, but we have decided to try a different path for the 2026 admissions cycles. Although we post the rubric publicly, please note that we do not conduct any pre-evaluations of a student’s application. As in the past, the best way to prepare for an upcoming application is to (1) address all the essay questions thoughtfully, carefully, and substantively and (2) do your best academically in all of your courses. We also highly recommend that all prospective students attend an information session to learn more about the Allen School and our evaluation process. These information sessions are free and open to the public. While we have somewhat changed how we calculate application scores the general structure remains the same. Academically, we consider the full transcript with particular attention given to more recent coursework and courses in prerequisite subject areas. Outside of academics, students can show strength in their Writing and Work History/Activities sections.
It should be a well-written, clearly presented document, typically 15-25 pages long.
It should reflect work done independently under the supervision of a faculty member.
Jump To A Section
K-12 Outreach
K-12 Outreach Programs
Key Dates & Deadlines
KTH Exchange
KTH in Stockholm, Sweden
Latest News
Learn about Minimum Academic Requirements
Length of course (semester, quarter, etc.) (required)
Links for planning your CSE curriculum:
List of Writing Centers at UW
Locations:
Machine learning and data mining are increasingly important activities and there is extremely high demand for people skilled in these areas. For example, data mining is used to tune Web search engine ranking functions, to evaluate the merit of credit card applications, to determine when a retail store should reorder products, and even to optimize the energy efficiency of advanced CPU architectures. A strong background in statistics (e.g., STAT391) and algorithm design (421) will be very useful when designing data-mining systems. 446 is the core course in the area and 473 will broaden your knowledge of AI methods. Frequently, the data to be mined is stored in a large relational DBMS; deep knowledge of database design and implementation (444) will let you create a much more effective system.
Main Administrative Offices
Main Tel: (206) 543-1695
Maintain the minimum UW and departmental GPA required for honors (listed above).
Majors: The CS and CE programs each require 180 total credits to graduate. Students will need to fulfill a General Education component, a Mathematics and Science component, and a Computer (Science or Engineering) component that consists of required classes and senior electives. Please refer to our guidelines below.
Make A Gift ♥
Make an Appointment
Make sure to use the “help” tool on the right-hand side of the application if you have any questions about filling-out the application. If you are still having trouble, please reach out to the Allen School Undergraduate Advising Team at ugrad-adviser@cs.washington.edu.
Many applicants who select Computer Science or Computer Engineering on their UW application will be admitted to the UW but not offered DTM admission to the Allen School. These students will see a listed major of &#8216;pre-major&#8217; or &#8216;pre-sciences&#8217;. We encourage students to be open-minded. Many students enter the UW thinking they want to pursue one major, but develop a passion for another major during their first year. The UW offers more than 180 majors, including a number of technology-related majors other than Computer Science and Computer Engineering, which are popular choices for many students and can be a great fit for your future plans. You can find related majors by visiting the UW Majors page and searching for “Computing” as an area of interest!
Many companies need talented web developers. Some are large companies that do web software as their bread and butter, like Google, Amazon, and Yahoo. Others are traditional software houses that have particular web products and services, like Microsoft or Cisco. Still others are regular non-software businesses that need to hire web hackers to create dynamic web sites for the company.
Many employers care deeply about &#8220;soft skills&#8221; &#8212; written and oral communication, teamwork, and time management. Communicating your ideas and organizing yourself is necessary for your technical skills to be useful. Gain experience in these areas.
Many graduate schools are extremely competitive. For example, UW CSE receives over 1000 applications for new Ph.D. students per year. On the other hand, several UW CSE undergrads enter Ph.D. programs each year, and probably an equal number beyond that would be able to be admitted to a competitive grad school but choose to go directly to industry. The CSE faculty are very knowledgeable as to which schools have strong programs in your area of interest, so make sure to consult them before applying. This type of information is very difficult to unearth on your own.
Many of the other specializations (such as systems developer, web developer, etc.) overlap significantly with what software engineers do: indeed, these others are in some sense specialized software engineers. This suggests that, along with the basics, you should take courses about the kind of software you may be interested in engineering.
March 1-15
masters at cs.washington.edu
Masters degree programs largely fall into two flavors: primarily coursework, or a mixture of coursework and independent research. Graduate coursework generally focuses on bringing students to the state of the art in a particular sub-area of CSE, while independent research targets the creation of new knowledge in the construction of leading edge computer products and services. Clearly, to do research in an area, a student needs to understand the current state of knowledge in that area. At UW, the Professional Master&#8217;s Program (PMP) is primarily coursework; students in the UW CSE fifth year masters program can pursue either path; and students admitted in the Ph.D. program focus on research while completing several courses early in their graduate career.
Math
MATH 124, 125, & 126
Math 126 or Math 136; Phys 122 or 142
MATH 134, 135 and 136: honors math track students have two options:
MATH 336: For students who complete MATH 336, they may petition to request to take CSE 431 in place of taking CSE 311. This waiver is contingent on the strength of the grade in MATH 336.
MATH 407/408/409: Scientific Computing
MATH 464/465/466: Scientific Computing
Mathematical Foundations
May 1
MEBI 498: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
Media Inquiries: media at cs.washington.edu
Meet a Current Student
Meet with a study abroad adviser to discuss your study abroad options
Meet with Current Student
Menu
Message from the Director
Minimum Academic Requirements
More flexibility in planning your Allen School coursework over four years of college
More information about a CS education career can be found on this page.
More specifically in terms of our curriculum, most students should take more than the minimum number of 300-level courses. The minimum is allowed for students who want to move quickly into a narrower specialty. In particular, while 331 is not required for CompE, we believe most students should take both courses. Software development skills and knowledge of hardware are extremely valuable. Because this advice applies generally, 331 is not explicitly listed under most of the specializations.
More time to do internships and participate in research
Most students planning for a second application will take additional challenging courses in math, science, English, or computer science. Keep in mind that although it may seem appealing to take a non-major Allen School course , these classes do not count toward Allen School major requirements. Applicants should speak with an Allen School adviser before taking a non-major Allen School class.
Must take one of the three above as a prerequisite to the following (when required)
MyCSE
MyCSE Resources
MyCSE Undergraduate Resources
Name of the course with respective credit/contact hours (required)
name="s"
National College Decision Day, deadline to confirm enrollment at most colleges & universities.
Natural Science
Neural engineering utilizes techniques from engineering to both understand the brain and build systems that interface with the brain such as neural prosthetics and implants. It encompasses areas such as computational neuroscience and brain-computer interfacing.
New CSE Majors
News &#038; Events
Next Steps
No, there is no minimum GPA to apply for DTM admission. The Office of Admissions uses a holistic review process that considers both academic preparation &#038; performance and personal achievements &#038; characteristics to make DTM decisions. On the academic side, there are multiple factors considered including strength of schedule, course rigor, and grades. Applicants with academic inconsistencies will have the opportunity to explain any circumstances that may have impacted their academic performance in their essays. Also note that hundreds of students with high grades are not offered DTM admission ; no GPA guarantees admission.
No, we do not expect DTM applicants to have any programming experience. We anticipate that students will enter with a variety of experience levels and our introductory curriculum is set up to meet students at their current level. Students will have the opportunity to self-select into the appropriate introductory course that meets their experience with computing. Our first course in the series, CSE 121, is designed for entering students with no experience at all!
Non-CSE Majors
Non-Major Options
Non-Majors: If you are interested in taking a CSE course visit our Non-major Options page for more information.
Non-Matriculated Students: If you are interested in taking CSE coursework, please see the Non-Matriculated information here .
None
NOTE : The Allen School keeps complete archives of prior year degree requirements if needed by alumni or potential employers. See below:
Note: Complete one form per study abroad course
Note: Computer Engineering majors may not use the same course to satisfy Math/Science Electives and Computer Engineering or Free Electives
Note: If you have taken multiple courses at the transfer institution that have related content, it’s best to submit them all, as sometimes a combination of courses will transfer, but an individual class might not cover enough material.
Note: This course has a DIV designation and fulfills the diversity requirement
Notes: This course has a DIV designation and fulfills the diversity requirement
November 15
Offered DTM Admission into Computer Science or Computer Engineering
Once the thesis is completed, one copy should be submitted to the faculty supervisor and one to the CSE undergraduate advisers. In order to ensure the honors designation will be marked on your diploma, thesis submission is due no later than the last day of finals during the quarter in which you plan to graduate .
One additional course chosen from the following Data Science electives:
One of the most exciting aspects of computer science today is its promise to cross over from the &#8220;core&#8221; to make significant contributions in disparate application domains, and biology/medicine are among the most promising of these connections. They are undergoing a sea change, with new technologies such as genome sequencing providing floods of data that will elucidate fundamental biomedical truths, if we can provide the appropriate computational tools to expose them. This encompasses a very broad landscape, including:
One of the most important things to know about the CSE registration process is how to get advice and help from Allen School advisers. CSE advisers can help you plan your courses, connect with resources, and provide general advice.
Only .pdf files will be accepted
Operate a robot platform using ROS tools;
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: CSE 401 (techniques in compiling can be useful for embedded systems and configurable computing systems), 421 (Computer-Aided Design requires a strong background in algorithms), 446 (machine-learning techniques are widely used in embedded systems) &#038; EE 476 (Digital Integrated Circuit Desing: Transistor-level design of digital systems, 477 (VLSI II: Advanced Digital IC Design)
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: CSE 401, 403, 484, EE 417 (Modern
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: HCDE 417 (Usability Research Techniques), 418 (User Experience Design), 419 (Survey of Concepts in Human-Computer Interaction) &#038; INFO 360 (User-Centered Design), 380 (Information Systems Analysis and Management)
Other pages of interest: Undergraduate Admissions and Allen School Degree Requirements .
Other Recommended Courses: 500-level courses in area of interest, CSE department colloquia, 590-level seminars in areas of interest, CSE 421/451, TA experience, writing experience
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 341, 344, 444, 421, 446, 473 &#038; STAT 391 &#038; MEBI 498 (an undergraduate topics course on Biomedical Informatics)
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 341, 344, 444, 484 &#038; INFO 343, 344
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 341, 401, 403, 444, 474, 471
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 341/401, 333/451/461, 333/444, 440, 484, 421
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 421, 446 &#038; EE 440
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 440
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 446, 457, 484
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 461, 474
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 444, 446, 474, 490&#8217;s
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 474 &#038; EE 215
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 440, 467 &#038; EE 205 or EE 215
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 444
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 451, 461
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 451, STAT 391, and numerical analysis courses in the MATH or AMATH departments. See, in particular, the numerical analysis sequence MATH 464/465/466 or the optimization sequence MATH 407/408/409
Other Recommended Courses: EE 406, EDUC 401
Other Recommended Courses: STAT 391
Other UW Programs
Our Courses
Our current UW student admissions pathway welcomes applicants who are already studying at the University of Washington&#8217;s Seattle campus and have completed the minimum academic requirements.
Our evaluations for all parts of the application are holistic, we consider the whole person, which comes out in the essay, versus just considering grades. The departmental application essay prompt is available online at any time (look at the Computer Science & Engineering dropdown). Please note, we do not provide specific feedback on an applicant&#8217;s personal statement.
Our goal is to have as complete a picture as we can of your activities, experiences, and academic performance .
Our most common advice for CSE majors is:
Our recruitment team is happy to help. You can reach out to us via email at outreach@cs.washington.edu!
Outgoing Ph.D.s &#038; Postdocs
outreach at cs.washington.edu
outreach@cs.washington.edu
Paradigm Online Writing Assistant
Participants will work in small groups (approximately 3 people in each group) to hone their technical skills to quickly absorb and adapt new technical knowledge, gain experience in complex programming, perform thorough experiments and analysis, and learn how to find a path when faced with negative results.
Participation in Allen School events and activities from your first day on campus
Past Years’ Admissions Statistics
Past Years&#8217; Admissions Statistics
Paul G. Allen Center
Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science &#038; Engineering: There are no double majors/double degrees between Computer Science and Computer Engineering
Peer Advising
People
Personal Statement Review Resources
Ph.D. Dissertation Talks
Ph.D. in CSE
Ph.D. programs in CSE are primarily designed for those interested in research careers. Although most Ph.D. programs involve coursework, the main focus is on pushing beyond the state of what is already known. Creativity, insight, teamwork, self-motivation, leadership, presentation and writing skills are all highly valuable to researchers, and in fact, the technical leadership of most companies excel at many of these same qualities. There is often a blurry line between academic research and new product development. Startups in particular value students who are able to solve technical problems where the solutions are not well-understood in advance. There is no textbook that says how to design an iPhone. It is not an accident that the CEO of Google has a Ph.D. in computer science; half of all Google hires from UW have advanced degrees. Thus, research experience is valuable, even if you do not pursue an academic career.
Ph.D. Student Recognition
PHYS 116/119, (but no credit for both 116 and 123),123, 143, 224, 225, 227, 228, 231, 232, 315, 321, 322, 323, 324, 325, 328, 331, 334, 335, 407, 408, 421, 422, 423, 424, 425, 426, 434, 460.
Physics
Physics 116 *and* Physics 119 &#8211; generally from AP credit. If you have not taken science, PHYS 121 is recommended as Phys 116 is the 3rd course in a series.
Physics 121/141
Plan a balanced schedule. Prepare yourself for a good academic experience and strong grades by planning a manageable schedule with a good mix of courses. We recommend two math/science/CSE courses per quarter, plus one non-math/science/CSE course, such as a VLPA or I&#038;S requirement. If you hope to take on heavier schedules, such as three CSE courses or four total courses, build up to this heavy workload after a strong quarter in lighter schedule. Remember that it’s easier to ramp up your workload over time than to recover from a quarter in which you’ve taken on too much.
Plan ahead. Use MyPlan (available on MyUW) to draft a 2-, 3-, or 4-year plan, then send it to a CSE adviser for feedback. We can note any missing requirements, mixed-up prereqs, or other scheduling issues, and we can discuss how to fit in extra-curricular activities — TAing, research, study abroad, etc. Planning ahead will help you form a better picture of your goals an opportunities, and avoid issues.
Plan for the amount of work in a course, not the number of credits. Most CSE majors take 12-15 credits per quarter, occasionally more. The number of credits does not always reflect the workload: A 4-credit CSE course or a 3-credit Math course will often require more work than many 5-credit courses.
Please contact our course evaluation team at CSEevals@cs.washington.edu .
Please do not contact faculty directly unless instructed by an adviser for special permissions. If you are interested in taking a 300-level or 400-level course that is full, please note that we will no longer be maintaining overload lists for these courses. Here are some actions you can take if desired classes are full:
Please note: Incomplete submissions will not be reviewed. If you do not submit any of the required materials, we will not complete the evaluation, and you will be notified that you need to complete a new submission.
Please refer to the Allen School Continuation Policy for information about minimum course load, dropping required courses, and other academic policies and procedures.
Please see the following process to get a course part of a UW Study Abroad program evaluated for UW CSE credit.
Please see the guidance on this page to have CSE courses from outside UW evaluated for UW CSE credit.
Policy & Procedures
Policy & Procedures - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Popular Links
PostBac Students
Postdoctoral Program
Postdoctoral Scholars
Pre-Majors: If you plan to apply to be a CS or CE major, refer to our guidelines below. If you are interested in taking a majors-only course, please see our Non-major Options page for more information.
Pre-req: CSE 332, 312 and one of (446, 442, 344)
Pre-req: CSE 351, 332 and ideally one 400
Preparing for Industry: Suggested Computing Specializations
Preparing to Apply
Prereq: (recommended) CSE 490 D, (recommended) CSE440
Prereq: CSE 369 and 474
Prereq: CSE 447, CSE446 (ML) is recommended
Prereq: CSE 484 (CE students graduating in fall who have not completed 484, please send email asap to ugrad-adviser@cs.washington.edu )
Prereqs: CSE 351 and 332
Prerequisite Substitutions
Prerequisite(s)
Prerequisites
Prerequisites: (Recommended) CSE 490N, (Recommended) CSE 446 or CSE 473
Prerequisites: 446 or 447 strongly recommended but not required
Prerequisites: CSE 312; CSE 331; CSE 332
Prerequisites: CSE 332 and CSE 312, and at least one of CSE 446, CSE 442, or CSE 344.
Prerequisites: CSE 332 or instructor permission
Prerequisites: CSE 332, and at least 1, CSE 400 level course recommended
Prerequisites: CSE 332, and at least one CSE 400 level course recommended
Prerequisites: CSE 332; CSE 351; either CSE 331 or CSE 352
Prerequisites: CSE 340 or CSE 440 or HCDE 318 or INFO 360
Prerequisites: CSE 351 and 332
Prerequisites: CSE 351, 332 and ideally one 400
Prerequisites: CSE 351, 332 and ideally one 400-level course
Prerequisites: CSE 351, CSE 332, and ideally one 400-level CSE course
Prerequisites: CSE 446/546 and one of CSE 493 S (Advanced Machine Learning), CSE 493G (Deep Learning), CSE 447, CSE 455, CSE 478, or CSE 427.
Prerequisites: CSE 451
Prerequisites: CSE 458; CSE 459
Prerequisites: CSE 484
Prerequisites: Either CSE 331 or CSE 340 AND either CSE 440 or CSE 493E: Accessibility. CSE 332 and 351 not required, contact advising to register without the pre-requisite.
Prerequisites: Either CSE 340, CSE 440, HCDE 318, or INFO 360
Prerequisites: Either EE 271 or CSE 369; either CSE 466, EE 472, or CSE 474/EE 474
Prerequisites: Networks or ML course recommended but not required.
Prerequisites: None
Prerequisites: none listed
Prerequisites: None, but CSE 440 is strongly suggested
Prerequisites: Recommended: HCI (440) or Operating Systems (451) or Networks (461)
Prerequisites: Senior standing in CSE or permission of the instructor
Prerequisites: Senior standing in CSE or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisites: TBD
Previous Computer Engineering Handbooks
Previous Computer Science Handbooks
Previous Handbook 1986-1987
Previous Handbook 1987-1988
Previous Handbook 1988-1989
Previous Handbook 1989-1990
Previous Handbook 1990-1991 &#8211; missing
Previous Handbook 1991-1992 &#8211; missing
Previous Handbook 1992-1993
Previous Handbook 1993-1994
Previous Handbook 1994-1995
Previous Handbook 1995-1996
Previous Handbook 1996-1997
Previous Handbook 1998-1999
Previous Handbook 2000-2002
Previous Handbook Autumn 1977
Previous Handbook Autumn 1978
Previous Handbook Autumn 1980
Previous Handbook Autumn 1981
Previous Handbook Autumn 1982
Previous Handbook Autumn 1983
Previous Handbook Autumn 1984
Previous Handbook Spring 1984
Previous Handbook Winter 1981
Previous Honors Handbook 1999-2001
Prior Years Degree Requirements
Prior Years&#8217; Degree Requirements
Priority date for UW Financial Aid (extended from January 15)
Privacy
Professional Master's Program Advising:
Projects must be large enough to require teams of several students to work on over one quarter.
Public Key
Questions
Questions about our undergraduate program? Contact our Recruitment Team at
Questions about the UW first-year application? Contact the UW Office of Admissions at
Questions?
Register for back-up courses in case you can&#8217;t get into your first choice.
Register on NotifyUW to get an alert if space opens in the course and attend the first week to try and keep up in the course in case you do get a spot. We will monitor demand on NotifyUW and try to add more space when needed.
Registering for full CSE courses:
Requirements to Graduate with CSE Honors
Research
Research &#038; Innovation
Research Colloquia
Research Opportunities
Research Overview
Research your study abroad options to find a program that might be a good fit for you by:
Returning students who have completed coursework elsewhere since attending the UW&#8217;s Seattle campus are eligible to apply as current UW students. Students who are enrolled at UW Bothell or UW Tacoma should apply through our transfer admissions pathway. Unfortunately, because demand exceeds capacity, current UW student admissions pathway is competitive and the Allen School is not able to offer admissions to all current UW applicants.
Review the UW Financial Aid page for details on how to determine which programs may be eligible for financial aid. For further information or questions on applying your financial aid to study abroad, please check in with the UW Financial Aid Office .
Reviewing some of the study abroad options on this page
Robotics & Control Systems
Robotics is about developing systems that can operate effectively in the real world. Robotics engineers develop algorithms that can handle noisy sensor data, learn models of the environment, and make decisions in real time. Modern robotics encompasses areas such as optimal control, probabilistic reasoning, state estimation, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. Robotics tools are applicable to a wide range of problem spaces beyond robotics, including speech recognition, machine vision, analysis of noisy data streams, interactive computer gaming, and brain-machine interfacing.
Rome in Residence
Room Reservations
Running Start Appointments
Running Start students can use the UW Equivalency Guide and MyPlan to determine which courses at UW are equivalent to their Running Start courses. Running Start students should prioritize ensuring that they complete well-rounded coursework in all core subject areas (English, math, science, social studies), exceeding the College Academic Distribution Requirements when possible.
Saarland Exchange
Saarland in Saarbruecken, Germany
Satisfactory Progress Policy
Scholarships &#038; Awards
School History
School-Wide Policies
Schoolwide Policies
Scientific Computing
Search for upcoming programs or by keyword (location, term, etc.) via the Find a Program page
Search scope
Seattle, WA 98195-2350
Seattle, WA 98195-2355
Second Choice Major
Security
September 1
Sitemap
Skip to content
SOC 225 Data & Society (either 3cr or 5cr version) (3-5)
Software & Hardware Systems
Software &#038; Hardware Systems
Software Engineering
Software engineers design, build and evolve software in a broad variety of domains. Although many focus on specific aspects of the software lifecycle &#8212; requirements engineering, architecture and design, testing and analysis, etc. &#8212; software engineers collectively address software systems from &#8220;womb&#8221; to &#8220;tomb.&#8221; Software engineers need to understand the needs of users, design approaches to manage software complexity and to ease change over time, ways to assess the properties that the software product does or does not have, algorithmic and implementation techniques to build efficient software, and more. Making effective trade-offs about issues ranging from performance to reliability to availability to ease of change (and more!) is part-and-parcel of a software engineer&#8217;s job.
Some options allow students to earn CSE credit toward their degree, while others can help fulfill general education requirements. To explore how studying abroad could fit into your long-term degree plan, we encourage students to review the information on this page for departmental exchanges, explore UW study abroad programs , and meet with their assigned Allen School academic adviser.
Some programs of potential interest to check out:
Some students choose to pursue a double major or double degree. There are a few known substitutions that we&#8217;ll list here:
Some students may need to petition the university for additional credits or quarters to complete their degree due to extenuating circumstances. Students must have a conversation with their academic adviser if they feel their situation warrants an extension of the University&#8217;s academic satisfactory progress policy, which requires students to complete their undergraduate degree program within 30 credits beyond the minimum required for their degree.
Sometimes a student will enter the Allen School with a significant number of MATH and STAT courses completed. If this is the case, you may try petitioning to waive CSE 311 via a substitution from a math course. Generally asking for just MATH 300 or just MATH/STAT 394 is not enough for a substitution. If you have not taken a significant number of MATH or STAT courses that cover this material, then generally you should plan to take CSE 311. A few known exceptions to this outcome follow:
Specializations
Specializations By Department & Course Number
Specializations Listed By Department and Course Number
Spring 2010-Spring 2011
Spring 2021
Spring 2022
Spring 2023
Spring 2024
Spring 2025
Spring 2026
Spring 2026 Personal Statement Workshop Presentation
Spring Admissions
STAT 391: Data Mining, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Mathematical Foundations, Robotics &#038; Control Systems, Scientific Computing
Stat/CSE Double Majors: STAT 435 can count as a CSE core-course in place of CSE 446 (no credit for both toward the CSE degree) In the Data Science option, STAT 303 can replace SOC 225
Strengthen Your Application
Student Engagement & Access Team
Student Life
Student Organizations
Student Privacy
Student Recognition
Student Recruitment Representatives
Student Resources
Student Services
Student Stories
Students applying to the Allen School should consider alternative degree options as well. UW offers many other excellent computing-related majors that are far more than &#8220;back-up&#8221; plans. Choose a major you enjoy and that will help further your personal, academic, and professional goals. Students in any major may take non-major Allen School courses to build technical skills.
Students enrolled in the CS or CE major have the option of pursuing school honors. This section explains the requirements for obtaining CSE honors , including minimum grade point average (GPA), participation in research, and completion of a thesis.
Students must apply concepts from more than one sub-area of CSE (at the 300-level and above).
Students must present their work using formal oral presentations and written reports.
Students sometimes decide to delay taking CSE 331 until the end of their time in the Allen School with the intention to waive the course based on prior internship/industry experience. These petition requests are always denied. If you are petitioning a waiver for any course, you typically need to prove how you have acquired the academic knowledge covered in the course. Simply having internship experience has been determined to not be a viable substitute for this course. Ideally students would complete 331 early in their academic career and before embarking on a software internship to get the most benefit from the course.
Students typically complete their thesis during their last quarter of research. Once a decision is made to pursue departmental honors, you should notify your faculty advisor and determine a topic for your senior thesis. The honors research and project should be completed with one faculty member, or, in the rare instance where you need to switch advisors, faculty within the same area of research as the original advisor.
Students who are currently in high school, Running Start students, and students who have not completed any college coursework since graduating from high school can apply through the Allen School&#8217;s DTM pathway. Most Allen School undergraduate students enter through the DTM pathway.
Students who do not receive an offer of admissions from the Allen School may still be admitted to the University of Washington as a ‘pre-major’ student.
Students will also have opportunities to delve into networking technologies, exploring how connected systems and distributed AI can enable groundbreaking applications, from edge computing to real-time collaboration between devices. Students will learn to navigate the constraints of mobile hardware and deploy sophisticated machine learning models that enhance user experiences in dynamic, networked environments. By the end of the course, students will have not only gained technical skills in on-device AI and networking but also gained invaluable experience in project management, cross-disciplinary collaboration, and communicating technical solutions. This capstone prepares students for careers at the forefront of on-device AI and network-driven innovation, ready to redefine how intelligent systems connect and operate.
Students will work in groups of four on a single project that will tie together and apply previous experiences from CSE 312, 332, 446, 442, 344, and other classes. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate machine learning, visualization and database methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be limited lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end data analysis process from transformation and exploration of data to modeling and evaluation. Your group will brainstorm on a project during the first week, before collaboratively exploring the data and implementing a complete data analysis workflow. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a data science question, and with crafting and evaluating a data science process to answer that question. question.
Students will work in groups of three or four on a single project that parallels the experience of delivering an interactive prototype within a company or with a customer. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate HCI methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be little lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end product cycle from design to deployment.
Study Abroad
Study Abroad - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Study Abroad Credit
Study Abroad institution/program name (required)
Study Abroad location (required)
Study Abroad Program Types
Study Center
Study resourcefully. UW and CSE provide lots of academic aids. Get help before you need it. Visit your professors and TAs during Office Hours. Collaborate with classmates in the undergrad labs. Email the CSE advisers about tutoring groups if you want extra study help in 300- and 400-level CSE classes. For introductory courses, the Intro Programming Labs (IPL), the Math Study Center, and CLUE are all great resources.
Subject Area
Submit a Senior Thesis that meets the following requirements:
Suggested Course Pathways to prepare for industry and graduate school
Summer
Syllabus should include:
Synthetic biology aims at modeling/manipulating natural biological systems for our benefit.
Systems developers create and manage the software environment for application development and execution. A systems developer may write operating systems (e.g., for a cell phone, desktop, or data-center server), data-center infrastructure (distributed file systems, web-server software, networking stacks), databases, compilers, networking and security.
Systems Development
Systems Development, Web Development
TA Tools
Take nine credits of graded research in honors section 496 . If you are uncertain whether your research will lead to an honors project when you start, you may take the first three credits in CSE 498. However, the last six credits of honors work must be in 496.
Talk with your Allen School assigned Academic Adviser to understand how studying abroad could fit in with your long-term degree plan. Consider your short-term and long-term goals, remaining degree requirements, and summer quarter options alongside how you’re financing your education. Your assigned adviser can help you organize your thoughts and identify all of your options while keeping in mind departmental and university policies.
Taught by: Alisa Liu and Orevaoghene Ahia
Taught by: Althoff
Taught by: Amy Zhang
Taught by: Anderson, Richard
Taught by: Barbara Mones
Taught by: Basia Radka
Taught by: Cakmak
Taught by: E.E.
Taught by: ECE
Taught by: ECE Department
Taught by: Franzi Roesner
Taught by: Haduong
Taught by: Heimerl
Taught by: Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman
Taught by: James Fogarty
Taught by: Jennifer Mankoff
Taught by: Kohno
Taught by: Maya Cakmak
Taught by: N. Smith
Taught by: Noah Smith
Taught by: Pang Wei Koh
Taught by: Patel,Shwetak N.
Taught by: Popovic
Taught by: R. Anderson
Taught by: Rajesh Rao
Taught by: Reinecke
Taught by: Richard Anderson
Taught by: Roesner
Taught by: S. Peter
Taught by: Sheng Wang
Taught by: Shwetak N. Patel
Taught by: Shyam Gollakota
Taught by: Simon Peter
Taught by: Steve Tanimoto
Taught by: Tim Althoff
Taught by: Wang
Taught by: Yoshi Kohno
Taught by: Zhang
Taught by: Zoran Popovic
Teaching Assistants
Term: All schools are on the semester system – students can choose to go for one semester or for the entire academic year. See each program&#8217;s individual page for more information on their dates of instruction (individual program pages coming soon!).
Term: Available Autumn, Winter, &#038; Spring quarters
Term: Quarter, semester, and academic year options
Terms
Textbooks or course materials assigned (if applicable)
The Allen School accepts applications for students to start in either spring or autumn quarter, we do not accept applications for winter or summer quarters.
The Allen School departmental application is typically open for about two weeks before the application deadline. Interested in starting early? The departmental application essay prompt is available online at any time (look at the Computer Science & Engineering dropdown).
The Allen School offers a variety of different activities for K-12 students to learn more about computing. Learn more about our K-12 outreach programs and summer opportunities.
The Allen School offers direct departmental exchange to four schools located in Europe. Based on the high quality of these schools and our excellent history with these exchanges, it is relatively easy for Allen School majors to plan courses that will fulfill upper level CSE degree requirements. These tend to be highly independent and immersive programs, where students will be directly admitted to the university and take classes there.
The Allen School offers hybrid information sessions for prospective DTM applicants on the first Friday of every month from 3:30pm – 4:30pm PT. In-person attendees can stay for a tour of the Allen School buildings immediately following the information session. During this session, you’ll learn about the Allen School student experience and the DTM admissions process. Registration with the Office of Admissions is optional but encouraged!
The Allen School Peer Adviser team typically hosts two to three in-person personal statement workshops where students will receive information about the best practices for personal statement writing, and then will have open unstructured time to work on their personal statement. Peer Advisers will be present to answer questions &#8211; please note that Allen School Academic Advisers do not provide feedback on personal statements. Each session does have a capacity limit to ensure attendees will have opportunities to ask questions within the workshop time. Participants are limited to attending a maximum of one group workshop. To attend a workshop, you must first reserve a spot .
The Allen School Student Recruitment Representatives are current students studying Computer Science or Computer Engineering in the Allen School who hold student employee positions focused on recruiting prospective students. They offer virtual appointments for high school students to answer any questions and share a bit about their experiences in the Allen School. These appointments are only available during the academic year (late September through early June).
The Allen School&#8217;s Direct to Major (DTM) admissions pathway welcomes applicants who want to join the UW&#8217;s Computer Science or Computer Engineering major as first-year students!
The core courses for ICTD (from a CSE perspective) are very close to those for embedded systems design but with a stronger emphasis on information system design. Many courses in the Information School and Department of Human-Centered Design and Engineering are also very appropriate as are courses in areas of public health, economic policy, and education (depending on student interests). You may also want to attend the Change seminar on Thursdays at noon (CSE590C1) to hear speakers talk about work on ICTD both at UW and elsewhere &#8211; attendees are undergrads, grads, researchers, and faculty from around campus and the greater Seattle area.
The courses below provide a core foundation in computer security. 484 is the keystone course. However, one tenet of computer security is that it is much harder to defend systems than attack systems. That is because an attacker needs to find only one way to succeed, whereas a defender needs to protect against all possible attacks. Computer-security issues can also affect all parts of a system, from the hardware to the user interface. Therefore, a computer-security practitioner should have as broad of a working knowledge in computer science as possible.
The CS and CE programs each require you to take 180 total credits to graduate. You will need to fulfill a General Education component, a Mathematics and Science component, and a Computer (Science or Engineering) component that consists of required classes and senior electives. For those students who are considering a double major, see below for an explanation of exceptions to our standard degree requirements.
The curriculum for a software engineer is heavily, but not solely, experiential. 331 and 403 are essential courses, as is one or more software capstone courses (and, when possible, internships or coops). Understanding the context for software from top-to-bottom is valuable for any software engineer, making courses like 341 and 401, 333 and 451 and 461 , 440, 344 and 444, 484, and 421 worthy of serious consideration. Students should also consider taking Business or Communication courses as possible general education courses.
The Elements of Style
The following links provide all the information required to (1) determine your core and elective options, (2) see yearly capstone course offerings, (3) plan a pathway toward a specific specialization, and (4) help in determining your future course planning:
The following list of &#8220;specializations&#8221; are typically either areas of computing or job titles or both. Unfortunately, most job titles are not used consistently by different companies &#8212; as one example, &#8220;software engineer&#8221; can range from meaning &#8220;entry-level programmer&#8221; to &#8220;advanced software architect.&#8221; Nonetheless, we try to follow the most common usage.
The information below is meant to help you understand the CSE 300-level courses and their prerequisites. Click here for a visual representation of the information .
The main courses required to complete the Data Science option are already among the listed “CSE Core Courses” that Computer Science majors chose from to fulfill the degree requirements. The overall number of credits required for the Computer Science degree is the same. Students wanting to explore or declare the Computer Science- Data Science degree should make an appointment with an academic adviser to discuss their options and to complete necessary paperwork.
The most core courses to an embedded systems career stress a deep understanding of how devices connect to the physical world and how real-time control software can be used to control physical systems and manage highly concurrent tasks.
The most salient characteristic of systems software is the need for reliability. If your operating system breaks, the user typically can&#8217;t get anything else done, and it might even corrupt their data permanently. The flaw might even provide an opportunity for a hacker to gain control over the user&#8217;s computer. The need for reliability is equally true for data-center software, the network, the compiler, and so forth. Making this even more challenging, systems software is often inherently complex; for example, the back-end software for a data center must deal with concurrency, recovery from node failures, resource overload conditions, and attacks from miscreants.
The motivation for many of the courses above will be self-evident, but to amplify a little, the scale and nature of the data make databases, statistical approaches, and algorithms very relevant, and common use of a wide variety of languages, e.g., Perl, Python, R, Matlab, motivates 341. There also are many relevant courses in Chem/Biochem/Biology/Genetics/Bio Engineering/etc. Unfortunately, most have significant prerequisites, but if they fit your schedule, go for it! As just one of many examples, BIOL 180/200 (Intro Biology) -> GENOME 371 (Intro Genetics) -> GENOME 372 (Genomics and Proteomics) -> GENOME 373 (Genomic Informatics) would be a great series for anyone with an interest in computational biology.
The school-wide policies section contains essential information on policies and procedures that help us maintain a vibrant academic community committed to excellence. By accepting a place in our program, students agree to abide by these policies.
The University of Washington is a public institution, which means that funding for the university comes partially from Washington State. For this reason, the University of Washington offers priority in admissions to residents of Washington State. Domestic non-resident students and international students can note in their personal statement any compelling reasons why they wish to attend college in Washington.
The University of Washington offers many different types of study abroad programs throughout the academic year and the summer. Check out the UW Study Abroad website to learn more about other study abroad programs available to undergraduate students.
The UW has exchange partnerships with over 70 universities around the world. Please visit the UW Exchanges page to learn more about UW-wide exchange programs. Please note that there is no guarantee that you will be able to receive upper-level CSE credit while attending a University-wide exchange.
The UW Office of Admissions considers applicants for DTM admission into the Allen School for autumn quarter admission only. High school applicants should plan to submit their application during the fall of their senior year to start at UW the following year.
The UW Office of Admissions looks for well-rounded students who receive strong grades across all of their core subject areas. Competitive applicants will go beyond the College Academic Distribution Requirements in most subject areas. The best academic preparation for Computer Science or Computer Engineering is taking the most rigorous curriculum offered at your high school. This includes advanced classes if available (Running Start, Honors, AP, IB, etc.), especially in English, math, and science. If you do not have access to these opportunities, you should include a note about that in your application.
The work must involve a substantial design effort.
The work should be original and demonstrate creative thinking, as judged by your faculty supervisor.
Theory & Models of Computation
Theory &#038; Models of Computation
There are a host of other jointly listed courses between ECE and CSE
There are always more qualified applicants than space available in our programs. Therefore, our process is competitive, and we must deny admission to some students with good academic records. We typically have space for approximately 25-35% of all students who apply however this number changes depending on increases in funding. It&#8217;s also important to note that we do not admit differently between Computer Science and Computer Engineering, we consider all applications together and admit without taking specific major into account. The admit rate in 2020 was 28% (113 admitted/402 applied), in 2021 it was 30% (165 admitted/554 applied), in 2022 it was 30% (134 admitted /444 applied), in 2023 it was 33% (165 admitted /495 applied), and in 2024 it was 32% (168 admitted/522 applied)
There are multiple facets to working with databases, and different jobs may emphasizes different facets. The application facet requires you to have a good understanding of database design, SQL, XML, jdbc: definitely take 344 and strongly consider 484 and 403. If you want to be a true expert, however, it will tremendously help you to know how databases work inside, how they are implemented, so make sure to take 444! 440 may be helpful for creating applications that are easy to use, so you should consider it. For the server facet (database administrator) you must have a good understanding of query processing techniques, types of indices, transactions, and anything that deals with systems performance; take 344, 444, 484, and very strongly consider 451. For the data analyst/data-intensive computing facet, you need to have some exposure to massively parallel data processing techniques such as MapReduce, or Pig Latin, and some basics in data mining: take 344, 444, 446.
There are some non-major courses that a student takes before they are admitted into the program that can apply to the CS or CE degree. We encourage students applying to the Allen School to consider waiting to take the major&#8217;s version of courses as these non-major courses are intended for students not pursuing an Allen School degree. Please see the non-majors page for how these courses may overlap if you are considering them. Note that this information can change as courses evolve so it&#8217;s best to check back regularly.
There is no separate application for Allen School DTM applicants and no additional materials are required. Your application will be reviewed by the UW Office of Admissions, so questions about the application should be directed to askuwadm@uw.edu.
These 4 CSE Core Courses:
These courses must be completed and numerically graded (with a minimum grade of a 2.0) prior to the departmental application deadline.
These exciting specialties require creativity, as well as computer science and math skills.
These programs can be a great way to complete general education requirements like Arts &#038; Humanities (A&#038;H) and Social Sciences (SSc), or can just be a great opportunity if you have some flexibility with your degree plan. Often, with advance planning, it’s possible to make studying abroad during your time at UW a reality. We always recommend meeting with your academic adviser to discuss how study abroad could fit in with your degree plan and graduation timeline.
These were the requirements starting in Fall 2022. For students under the older requirements please see the CE Science Requirement list , which includes all the courses that used to count for the CS science requirement when 10 credits were still required.
This capstone focuses on human-centered design with and around AI:
This class will provide students with an intensive 10-week experience in successfully completing an intellectually-exciting project in mobile systems and networking. Participants will work in small groups to learn new technical skills to quickly absorb and adapt new technical knowledge, gain experience in mobile programming and networking, implement their ideas on mobile devices and perform thorough experiments and analysis. Other than programming, no prerequisites are required.
This page will help get you started with reviewing some of the various study abroad programs available to you.
This section contains essential information on policies and procedures, including detailed Policy & Procedures guidelines, that help us maintain a vibrant academic community committed to excellence. By accepting a place in our program, students agree to abide by these policies and procedures.
This was the last year CSE had separate tracks for Hardware and Software within Computer Engineering.
Thus, central to the curriculum for a systems developer is systems construction experience (via project oriented systems classes like 333 and 451, as well as internships and software capstones), breadth of knowledge of how systems work and how they break (461 and 484), principles of software engineering practice (331 and 403), technology trends, and specialized courses depending on time and interest (e.g., for compiler construction, one would want 341, 401).
Time Schedules
To be considered for DTM admission into the Allen School, applicants must submit the UW first-year application with either Computer Science or Computer Engineering as their first-choice major. No computing experience is required to be considered for DTM admissions.
To be considered for the current UW student admissions pathway, applicants must be currently (or previously) enrolled at the University of Washington&#8217;s Seattle campus with at least 12 completed credits at UW-Seattle. Most often, these students would be &#8216;interest changers&#8217; &#8211; students who came to UW with another interest in mind and later developed a passion for Computer Science or Computer Engineering.
To complete the Computer Science degree , students must complete 5 credits from the following list:
Transfer Admissions
Transfer Applicant FAQ
Transfer Credit
Transfer institution location (required)
Transfer institution name (required)
Types of Research Credit
ugrad-adviser at cs.washington.edu
Undergraduate Advising Team
Undergraduate Advising:
Undergraduate Demographics
Undergraduate Education
Undergraduate Events Calendar
Undergraduate Outreach & Recruitment:
Undergraduate Research Registration
Undergraduate Study Abroad Options
Undergraduate Teaching Awards
University-wide Exchanges
Up to 2 credits max of CSE 301, CSE 394, CSE 492, ENGR 321 and/or GEN ST 350.
Upon completion of the course, you will need to send an official transcript to UW Office of Admissions. Once the course appears on your UW record, you should email us to have the course updated appropriately. Please include the original email with the evaluation information that we sent to you.
Use important tools in ROS, contribute to ROS, find available packages in ROS;
User Interface & Human-Computer Interaction
User interface design or user interface engineering is the design of computers, appliances, machines, mobile communication devices, software applications, and websites with the focus on the user&#8217;s experience and interaction. The goal of user interface design is to make the user&#8217;s interaction as simple, efficient, satisfying, (and possibly) fun as possible, in terms of accomplishing user goals—what is often called user-centered design. Good user interface design facilitates finishing the task at hand without drawing unnecessary attention to itself (unless it is a game!). Graphic design may be utilized to support its usability. The design process must balance technical functionality and visual elements (e.g., mental model) to create a system that is not only operational but also usable and adaptable to changing user needs. Interface design is involved in a wide range of projects from computer systems, to phones, to cars, to commercial planes; all of these projects involve much of the same basic human interactions yet also require some unique skills and knowledge. As a result, designers tend to specialize in certain types of projects and have skills centered around their expertise, whether that be software design, user research, web design, or industrial design. (Adapted from Wikipedia .)
UW Application Writing Prompts
UW course number and title that most closely matches (optional)
UW CSE Prior Degree Requirements
UW first-year application deadline
UW first-year application opens
UW Writing Resources for Undergraduates
value="" autocomplete="off" placeholder="Search" />
Various locations
View all calendar events &raquo;
Visiting Researchers
WA Residents
We assume existing experience with human-centered design methods.
We assume existing experience with or the ability to learn frameworks for developing interactive applications.
We do not assume or expect engagement with development of the underlying AI.
We do not assume or expect existing experience developing with or around AI.
We encourage you to take courses that interest you even if (or especially if) they are not listed for your career of interest &#8212; a fresh perspective is often the seed of creativity.
We have two Oculus-VR development kits , two Tobii EyeX Eye-tracking Controllers, and 15 Leap Motion controllers for use in building musical/audio/media interfaces. We also have three Nvidia Jetson TX1 Developer Kit s for high-performance Deep Neural Network learning and computer vision.
We know that students are curious about how we evaluate applications. For the 2026 undergraduate admissions cycles, we are posting the updated version of the rubric online preemptively.
We look for breadth in prerequisite coursework as well as in general education classes . For instance, courses in English and Speech Communication can be important to our majors. Many of our upper-division courses demand presentation skills and an ability to communicate among team members. Also, your choice of courses gives us a glimpse of what interests you.
We offer courses designed to enable all students, regardless of major, to develop computational thinking and hands-on programming skills.
We offer different types of information sessions to support prospective students applying through the current UW student admissions pathway.
We recommend checking in with your assigned Allen School academic adviser about how studying abroad on a University-wide exchange might fit in with your long-term degree plan in addition to how courses abroad will fulfill your requirements.
We recommend that you choose whichever major you are currently most interested in as your first-choice major on your application. You can learn more about the differences between the two majors on the Undergraduate Admissions page. If you are admitted to the Allen School, it is relatively easy to switch between our two majors as long as it does not delay graduation.
We typically hold an information session on the Allen School departmental exchanges every Autumn. Keep an eye on the EdBoard for this announcement & further event details.
We, therefore designed this page to be a starting point in directing you toward specific employment specializations.
Web developers need to know about many different programming languages and technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, XML, databases/SQL, PHP/Java/Ruby/.NET, etc. It&#8217;s impossible to be an expert at all of these things, but exposure to many of them and ability to self-teach are important for many web dev jobs. It&#8217;s very helpful to know more about the overall process of software engineering, such as gathering requirements, design, and testing (403), since in some cases you&#8217;ll be building the site or web application by yourself or as part of a small team. Experience with user interface design and HCI (440, 441) are useful for creating effective, usable web sites. The ability to manage and manipulate data, whether in traditional data structures (332) or databases (344, 444) is very valuable since most business web sites/apps manage the business&#8217;s data.
Web Development
Webmaster: support at cs.washington.edu
Website
Webster&#8217;s Dictionary
Welcome to the Allen School! You can register for CSE major courses after you are coded as a CS or CE major (instructions on the new majors orientation page). We do not require new students to take a CSE course their first quarter in the major; however, beginning your second quarter, our CSE Continuation Policy requires at least one (1) Math, CSE or Science degree-required course per quarter. Consider the following classes for your first quarters:
What are my chances of admission?
What are some resources I can use to help me write a strong personal statement?
What are the benefits of applying for DTM admission?
What classes should I take in high school?
What factors are considered in the review process?
What Happens
What happens if I am admitted to the UW but not the Allen School?
What if I am offered DTM admission but decide I would like to pursue a different major?
What should I do if I am not admitted?
Which Allen School Major should I apply for - Computer Science or Computer Engineering?
Who can I reach out to for help?
Who We Are
Winter 2004-Spring 2006
Winter 2021
Winter 2022
Winter 2023
Winter 2024
Winter 2025
Winter 2026
Wireless Communications), EE 442 (Digital Signals and Filtering), EE 484 (Sensors and Sensor Systems)
