Owner: uw-seattle-asian-studies:pathway:japan-concentration
Source: https://jsis.washington.edu/programs/undergraduate/asia-studies/
Title: Asian Studies - Major - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies

– Israel Studies Program
– Sephardic Studies Program
(206) 543-6001
(Winter)
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – China Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – Japan Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – Korea Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – South Asia Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – Southeast Asia Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
§ A maximum of 5 credits of lower-division coursework (200-level) may be counted in the “LIST B” section of the Asian Studies-Japan Concentration.
*HSTAS 212
*HSTAS 214
*JSIS A/POL S 213
&copy; 2026 Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington | Seattle, WA
†§JSIS A 242
†if not taken for the Japan Concentration’s core requirement
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KMF8KQZ"
<svg version="1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
2023 Skagit Lane, Thomson Hall , Box 353650 Seattle, WA 98195-3650
25
2nd Asian Civilization Course
5
A minimum of ten credits from the following list of core South Asia courses
About
About the Jackson School
Academic Programs
Academic Services
Admin
Advising
Advising Questions
African Studies Program
Apply
Arctic and International Relations
Asian Civilization Course
Asian Research Paper written with Jackson School Professor 15 pgs.
Asian Studies - China Concentration
Asian Studies - Japan Concentration
Asian Studies - Japan Concentration - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies
Asian Studies - Korea Concentration
Asian Studies - Major
Asian Studies - South Asia Concentration
Asian Studies - Southeast Asia Concentration
Asian Studies – China Concentration
Asian Studies – Japan Concentration
Asian Studies – Korea Concentration
Asian Studies – Major
Asian Studies – South Asia Concentration
Asian Studies – Southeast Asia Concentration
Asian Traditions
Autumn
Autumn / Winter
Back to top
Canadian Studies Center
Careers & Internships
Center for Global Studies
Center for Human Rights
Center for Japanese Studies
Center for Korea Studies
Center for Southeast Asia and its Diasporas
Center for West European Studies
Centers & Research
China Studies Program
Choose (3-400 level) to include: min. 15 cr. from Japan Social Science,and additional 10 cr. from Social Science or Japan Humanities/Arts & Literature
Click here for an online checklist of course requirements
Close Menu
Comparative Religion
Connect with Us
Contact Us
Course #
Course Lists
Coursework Requirements
Credits
Current Quarter Courses
Cybersecurity Initiative
Diversity and Equity
E: jsis@uw.edu
East Asia
East Asia Center
East Asia Resource Center
Ellison Center for Russian, East European and Central Asian Studies
European Union Center
Events
Executive Master of International Studies
Facebook
Faculty & Affiliate Faculty
Funding Opportunities
General Questions
General questions about Academic Services, course add codes, requesting an independent study or internship course, directions around campus, or help finding student resources.
Give Now
Global Futures in East Asia
Global Research Group
Graduate Programs
Graduation
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Hellenic Studies Program
History of Chinese Civilization or
History of Korean Civilization
History of Modern Japan
Home
HSTAS 201 South Asian History pre-history to 1500
HSTAS 201, 202, 211, JSIS A 206, 212, 221
HSTAS 211 or
HSTAS 212
HSTAS: 201, 211, JSIS A 202, 205, 206, 212, 241, 242
Instagram
International Policy Institute
Introduction to Contemporary Japan
Jackson School Journal
Jackson School Student Association
Japan
Japan Electives List
Japan Electives3-400 level
Japan Studies Courses
Japanese Civilization
Japanese Civilization or
Japanese Language
Japanese Language proficiency through 2nd year college level or 3rd quarter of 2nd year college level.(For first- and second-year language courses, grades must average 2.00)
Journal of Japanese Studies
JSIS 201
JSIS 201 – The Making of the Twenty-first Century (5 credits)
JSIS 203 – Rise of Asia
JSIS 203 or
JSIS 203 or JSIS A 207
JSIS A / ANTH 407
JSIS A 206 Contemporary India & Pakistan
JSIS A 207
JSIS A 207 – Asian Traditions
JSIS A 241 or JSIS A 242
JSIS A 254
JSIS A 405/ANTH 449
JSIS A 423
JSIS A 461 – Ramayana in Comparative Perspective
JSIS A 485 – Special Topics on South Asia
JSIS A/ GEOG 438 – Social and Political Geographies of South Asia
JSIS A/ANTH 316 – Modern South Asia
JSIS A/ANTH 339 – Social Movements in Contemporary India
JSIS A/ANTH 341 – Political Violence and the Post-Colonial State in South Asia
JSIS A/ANTH 448
JSIS A/HSTAS 202 South Asian History 1500-present
JSIS A/HSTAS 303 – Divided Lands/Divided Lives: An Environmental History of South Asia
JSIS A/POL S 340 – Politics of India, Pakistan, and South Asia
JSIS A/POL S 417 – Political Economy of India
JSIS A/POL S 439
JSIS Business Office
JSIS Centers, Programs, and Initiatives
JSIS Intranet
jsisadv@uw.edu
jsisoas@uw.edu
KOREA
Latest News
Latin America and Caribbean Studies
LinkedIn
Looking for help?
Make a Gift
Meet an Adviser
Middle East Center
Minimum Grade
Minimum grade 2.0 in all courses applied to major.
Modern Korean History through Film
Modern Korean Society
News & Events
One Asian Civilization course chosen from:
One of the following two courses, taken autumn or winter quarter (5 credits)
One South Asia history course from the following list
Pathways
Paull Shin Korea Studies Program
People
Ph.D. Students
Politics of Divided Korea
Privacy
Program on Strategy, Policy, and Diplomacy Research
Quarter
Quick Links
Related Regions
Research Paper
Rise of Asia or
Rise of Asia or Asian Traditions
See a student profile of a Jackson School major’s in-depth study of contemporary Korean dramas.
Sign up for the newsletter
Skip to main content
Social Transformation of Modern East Asia
SoundCloud
South Asia Center
South Asia includes India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Maldives, Afghanistan and Tibet. Students are expected to gain proficiency in a South Asian language (Hindi, Urdu, Bengali and Sanskrit are offered regularly at all levels) and to pursue a course of study that includes both disciplinary concentration and interdisciplinary breadth. Students have opportunities to pursue language study in India through the program’s membership in the American Institute of Indian Studies. Other organizations provide similar opportunities for study in many of the other countries of the region.
Southeast Asia Core
Staff Directory
Stroum Center for Jewish Studies
Student Resources
Students can meet with an adviser to discuss courses, majors, minors, study abroad, or fellowship and scholarship opportunities.
Study Abroad Office
T: (206) 543-4370
Taiwan Studies Program
Terms
The China concentration in Asian Studies provides students with a sound foundation in one or more aspects of the study of China. The faculty has particular strength in history, both modern and pre-modern, as well as the social sciences. In addition, an extensive range of outstanding courses is available in the areas of language and literature. Students in the China Program are encouraged to take advantage of intensive overseas language training offered by the Inter-University Program in Taipei or the Beijing Chinese Language Program available through Beijing University.
The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies
The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies / College of Arts and Sciences / University of Washington
The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington
The Jackson School is a proud member of the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs .
The Japan concentration combines language training with interdisciplinary study to give students a solid background in one or more areas of Japanese studies. Students are offered courses to an advanced level in the following: interdisciplinary studies, economics, business, political science, history, art, literature, and language. Advanced language training is available through the Inter-University Center for Japanese Language Studies in Yokohama, of which the University of Washington is a sponsoring member.
The Korean Peninsula and World Politics
The Making of the Twenty-first Century
The Paull Shin Korea Studies Program focuses on Korea within the broader context of East Asia. While it concentrates on the history, society, and language of Korea, courses on China and Japan are also an important part of the curriculum. In addition, visiting professors in other disciplines regularly complement the resident faculty.
The Southeast Asian Studies concentration promotes the study of Viet Nam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Burma, Singapore, Brunei, Timor Loro’sae and the Philippines. Core courses introducing students to the cultures and societies of the region are offered in the Jackson School and in the Departments of Anthropology and History. Additional courses are offered by the Departments of Geography, Asian Languages and Literature, Political Science, Sociology, and in the School of Public Health. Language instruction in Burmese, Khmer, and Thai is offered within the Jackson School of International Studies. Indonesian and Vietnamese are taught by teaching professors in the department of Asian Languages & Literature, and Tagalog is offered by the department of American Ethnic Studies.
Title
Total Credits (not including language): 50
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington
UW MyPlan
Varies
Visiting Scholars
Website Login
width="18.776px" height="51.062px" viewBox="0 0 18.776 51.062" enable-background="new 0 0 18.776 51.062" xml:space="preserve">
Winter
Winter (sometimes)
Winter & Spring
Winter or Spring
Writing Center
X
YouTube
