Owner: uw-seattle-education-studies:pathway:mathematics-education
Source: https://www.washington.edu/students/gencat/program/S/CollegeofEducation-351.html
Title: 

Honors Options Available: With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements.
Department Scholarships: See department website for undergraduate scholarship information.
Student Organizations/Associations: ECE Alumni & Student Leadership Council, Associated Students of the College of Education (ASCE) and International Educators of the College of Education (IECE).
Back to Top
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Care and Education: Teaching and Learning (fee-based) (online) (not admitting)
Additional Information
Formerly the College of Education offered two major options: (1) General Core and (2) Teaching and Learning. As of autumn quarter, 2020, however, those two options have been replaced by a single major. Please refer to the UW Seattle General Catalog Archive for information about the options.
Back to Top
Program of Study: Major: Early Childhood and Family Studies
Program Overview
The Early Childhood and Family Studies (ECFS) major provides the opportunity to study early childhood development, early learning, and family studies from a variety of perspectives across a range of disciplines. The degree prepares students for careers in early learning, childcare, policy, family support and education, and social/mental health services. It is also a pathway to graduate studies in a number of fields related to early learning and development, including teaching certification.
This program of study leads to the following credential:
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies: Teaching and Learning
Admission Requirements
Satisfactory progress toward completion of general education requirements
Admission is capacity constrained, based on the following criteria. Completion of requirements does not guarantee admission.
Minimum 2.0 grade in ECFS 200
Minimum 2.0 grade in English composition
Two-to-three page personal statement reflecting an interest in the early childhood and family studies major and a commitment to learning about the field
Overall academic performance reflected in copies of unofficial transcripts
Other evidence of interest in and commitment to the field (e.g., work experience, volunteer experience, or internships)
Grades in any completed recommended courses and courses applied to major requirements
Applications due October 15 for winter quarter start and April 15 for autumn quarter start. For current UW students, notification is sent two weeks later; for transfer students, notification is sent after applicants are admitted to the UW. Transfer students who have not completed ECFS 200 prior to admission must complete this course after matriculation to UW. Applications may be considered after the dates above on a case-by-case basis, depending on program capacity.
Students accepted typically have a minimum cumulative 2.50 GPA and a minimum grade of 2.0 for any prior college coursework that can be applied toward the major.
Information sessions are offered to learn more about the major and how to apply.
For more information, refer to College of Education website or inquire at 206 Miller.
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies: Teaching and Learning
Credential Overview
The Bachelor of Arts with a major in Early Childhood and Family Studies, Teaching and Learning on-campus pathway is intended for students who are interested in working in early learning settings, or for those who plan to apply to a master's in teaching or other teaching certification programs. Current city, state, and national policy efforts are focused on equitable access to high quality early learning programs. Part of the measure of quality is having professionals prepared in content areas and pedagogical approaches to early childhood education. Courses include Language & Literacy, Mathematics, Science, Positive Behavioral Support, Engaging Interactions & Environments, and Individualized Instruction. You will also participate in service learning alongside teachers in preschool classrooms or childcare centers each quarter during your junior and senior years.
Completion Requirements
General Education Requirements
Language and Reasoning Skills
English Composition (5 credits)
Reasoning (RSN) (5 credits)
Writing courses (10 credits)
Diversity (DIV) (5 credits). Of Special Note: For students admitted to the University prior to autumn quarter 2023, the DIV requirement is 3 credits.
Areas of Inquiry
Arts and Humanities (A&H) (15 credits)
Social Sciences (SSc) (15 credits)
Natural Sciences (NSc) (15 credits)
Areas of Inquiry (15 additional credits from any area)
Maximum 15 credits in ECFS-prefix courses from the University Areas of Inquiry list may be counted toward the UW Areas of Inquiry requirements.
Major Requirements
79-81 credits
Early Childhood and Family Studies Core Courses (39 credits):
Minimum 2.0 grade in ECFS 200
ECFS 303, ECFS 311, ECFS 401, ECFS 402; EDPSY 302, EDPSY 406; EDUC 251; IECMH 432
Additional requirements specified below
Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses used to satisfy major requirements
Minimum 40 credits applied to the major taken through the UW
Additional Completion Requirements
Option specific credits (40-42 credits):
one of ECFS 315, ECFS 320, or ECFS 419 (5 credits)
one of EDSPE 304, EDSPE 414, EDSPE 427, or EDSPE 435 (3-5 credits)
ECFS 301, ECFS 312 (3), ECFS 321, ECFS 400, ECFS 410, ECFS 411, ECFS 454, ECFS 455, ECFS 456 (32 credits)
Back to Top
Additional Information
Formerly the College of Education offered two credentials: (1) Bachelor of Arts degree in Early Childhood and Family Studies; and (2) Bachelor of Arts degree in Early Childhood and Family Studies: Teaching and Learning. As of spring quarter 2023, however, the Bachelor of Arts degree in Early Childhood and Family Studies is no longer offered. Please refer to the UW Seattle General Catalog Archive for information about the Bachelor of Arts degree in Early Childhood and Family Studies.
Student Outcomes and Opportunities
Learning Objectives: The early childhood and family studies major immerses students in the study of child and family development and education. Students learn about child development, early learning, and family studies from a variety of perspectives. They receive a strong grounding in reading and understanding the theory and evidence that provide the foundation for the field and drive current research and policy efforts.
Expected Outcomes: Students apply their knowledge and skill as they work alongside community-based teachers, community leaders, and care providers. The degree provides preparation for a wide variety of careers in early learning, childcare, parent and family support and education, child and community advocacy and organization, and social and mental health services. It also serves as a pathway for graduate studies in education, child and family studies, educational policy, special education, and other areas.
Service Learning and Research: Two sequences of field-based experiences provide students with real life-learning opportunities in community-based early childhood or family support/education settings. Students participate in both an introductory seminar experience as well as a sequenced field experience during their first year in service learning. In the Teaching and Learning option, students participate in a three-quarter senior service learning, research, and senior project that provides advanced opportunities to integrate theory and practice in community-based early childhood or family support programs, and/or research settings. The seminar ties together research and practice, demonstrating how research informs evidence-based decision-making in programs and services. Students also receive guidance in career options and current events in the field, tying in major experiences with their own developmental and career goals. Learning objectives are outlined in class.
Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements.
Department Scholarships: See department website for undergraduate scholarship information.
Student Organizations/Associations: Associated Students of the College of Education (ASCE) and International Educators of the College of Education (IECE).
Back to Top
Program of Study: Major: Education Studies
Program Overview
The Education Studies program is designed for students who are interested in working with children, youth, families, and communities and the variety of ways that we all teach and learn, both in and beyond traditional classroom settings.
This program of study leads to the following credentials:
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education Studies: Early Childhood Studies
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education Studies: Education Research and Policy
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education Studies: Foundations of Teaching
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education Studies: Multilingual/Language in Education
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education Studies: Sports and Education
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education Studies: Wellness and Social Emotional Learning
Admission Requirements
Minimum 2.0 grade in one introductory course: ECFS 200, EDUC 240, or EDUC 280
Minimum 2.0 grade in English composition
45 credits earned
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Education Studies: Early Childhood Studies
Credential Overview
The Early Childhood Studies option is designed for students interested in working with and for young children and their families beyond the classroom, and for those pursuing graduate studies related to early childhood education.
Completion Requirements
General Education Requirements
Language and Reasoning Skills
English Composition (5 credits)
