Owner: uw-seattle-sustainable-bioresource-systems-engineering
Source: https://sefs.uw.edu/students/undergraduate/sbse-major/requirements/
Title: SBSE Schedule and Major Requirements | School of Environmental and Forest Sciences

-->
[supersedes CSE 142, 143]
[Supplemental official source] BSE Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] BSE Majors Considering the Switch to the SBSE Major
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: General Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: Wildlife Conservation Academic Requirements
[This course is being replaced by CSE 121, 122, 123]
&copy; 2026 University of Washington |
% =ENGRUD Placement requirement or recommended
+ % CHEM 142 &#8211; General Chemistry (5 cr) or CHEM 143/CHEM 145
+ % CHEM 152 &#8211; General Chemistry (5 cr) or CHEM 153/155
+ % English Composition – ENGL 131 or similar (5cr)
+ % MATH 124, 125, 126- Calculus with Analytical Geometry I, II, III (15cr) or honors equivalent (MATH 134, 135, 136)
+ % PHYS 121 &#8211; Mechanics (5cr) (or PHYS 141 – honors)
+ = Admission Requirements – to be completed prior to application
+ CHEM 162 – General Chemistry (5 cr) or CHEM 165 (162/165 not required if CHEM 153 completed)
<!--
<svg id="college_black_logo" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
<svg version="1.1" id="university_logo_black" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
<svg version="1.1" id="university_logo_white" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
| (206) 543-2730
$ = Enrollment or satisfactory progress requirements – to be completed before Fall quarter of Junior year
$ AA 260 &#8211; Thermodynamics (4 cr) [must be completed before Fall Junior year]
$ BSE 210: Concepts in Bioproduct Sustainability (4 cr) (Junior transfers can take this Junior year)
$ BSE 248: Paper Properties (4cr) (Junior transfers can take this Junior year)
$ CHEM 237 – Organic Chemistry (4 cr)
$ CHEM 238 &#8211; Organic Chemistry (4 cr)
$ MATH 207 (or AMATH 351) &#8211; Introduction to Differential Equations (3cr) [pr: MATH 125] (not required if MATH 134-136 completed)
$ MATH 208 (or AMATH 352) &#8211; Matrix Algebra with Applications (3cr) [pr: MATH 126] (not required if MATH 134-136 completed)
$ PHYS 122 &#8211; Electromagnetism (5 cr) (or PHYS 142 &#8211; honors)
$ PHYS 123 &#8211; Waves (5 cr) (or PHYS 143 &#8211; honors)
1
10 Writing (W) credits met by other courses in the major
12 credits chosen from the courses on this list:
2
2.0+ in both MATH 126/136 and PHYS 121/141
3
3, max 12
4
5
5 Credits English Composition (ENGL 131 Preferred)
A A 210
A PDF of the course requirements and a sample 4-year degree plan is available at this document . Students must complete the BSE-prefixed courses in the quarter and year indicated.
ABET Accreditation: BSE
ABET Accreditation: SBSE
About
About SEFS Minors
About the Rooms
Academic and Health & Wellness Support Resources
Academic Planning Resources
Academic Policies
ACCTG 215
ACCTG 215; ECON 200
ACCTG 225
ACCTG 225; ECON 200; either MATH 112, MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 134, or MATH 145; either ECON 311, IND E 315, QMETH 201, Q SCI 381, PSYCH 315, PSYCH 318, STAT 220, STAT 301, STAT 221, STAT 311, or STAT 390.
Additional Math/Statistics/Sciences courses: 0-11 NSc credit if needed to reach 68 NSc credits (formerly NW)
Adjunct Faculty
Admission to the Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management (ESRM) Major
Admission to the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) major
Admission to the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major
Admissions
Aeronautics and Astronautics
Affiliate Faculty
Air-Pollution Control
Air-Quality Modeling
All prospective SBSE students should be aware that while students can join the major at any time, the SBSE-prefixed courses begin in Autumn Quarter of Junior Year (year 3). Students admitted prior to this need to be completing all of the courses included in years 1 and 2 of the SBSE academic plan so they are ready to start the SBSE-prefixed courses in Autumn of year 3. There are two years (6 quarters, Autumn-Spring) of required SBSE-prefixed courses.
All UW Courses are listed in the UW Course Descriptions . Departments with specific courses identified below: A A , AMATH , BSE , CHEM , CSE , ECON , ENGL , ESRM , INFO , MATH , PHYS , Q SCI , SBSE ,
Alumni
AMATH 301: Beginning Scientific Computing (4 credits)
Anderson Hall, Box 352100 Seattle, WA 98195
Applies vector analysis to equilibrium of rigid body systems and subsystems. Includes force and moment resultants, free body diagrams, internal forces, and friction. Analyzes basic structural and machine systems and components.
Aquatic and Fishery Sciences
Areas of Inquiry (25 cr):
Areas of Inquiry: Arts and Humanities (A&H) and Social Science (SSc)
Arts & Humanities (A&H) &#8211; formerly VLPA (10cr)
Arts and Humanities (A&H): 10 credits Chosen from the University A&H list
Atmospheric and Climate Science
Back to Top
Basic Skills
Basic Skills (8-11 cr):
Be Boundless
Best Practices for PIs
Biological Frameworks for Engineers
Bioresource Science and Engineering
Bioresource Science and Engineering - Business Option: Engineering Electives
Bioresource Science and Engineering: Engineering Electives
Both prospective transfer student applicants and current UW students can download this SBSE 4-year course plan document and use it to plan your required courses.
Brockman Memorial Tree Tour
BSE 391 Engineering Principles of Biorefineries (5 cr)
BSE 392 Bioresource Transport Phenomena (5 cr)
BSE 406 Natural Products Chemistry (5 cr)
BSE 410 Industrial Wastewater Treatment and Reduction (4 cr)
BSE 420 Bioresource Engineering 1 (4 cr)
BSE 421 Bioresource Engineering 2 (4 cr)
BSE 422 Bioresource Engineering 3 (4 cr)
BSE 426 Bioresource Laboratory (4 cr)
BSE 430 Papermaking Processes (5 cr)
BSE 436 Pulp and Paper Laboratory II (4 cr)
BSE 475
BSE 480 Bioresource Design I (4 cr) (first Capstone course)
BSE 481 Bioresource Design II (5 cr) (second Capstone course)
BSE 497 Internship (1 cr)
BSE Academic Requirements
BSE Academic Requirements | School of Environmental and Forest Sciences
BSE Admissions Events
BSE Major
BSE Major Requirements
BSE Major: Business Option
BSE Majors Considering the Switch to the SBSE Major
BSE Schedule
Business, Policy, and Economics
Business, Policy, and Economics (1 course required)
Calendars
Carbon-Related Research at SEFS
CEE 220
CEE 291
CEE 350 or CEE 357
CEE 354
CEE 357
CEE 480
CEE 482
CEE 490
CEE 497
Center for Quantitative Science
CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145
CHEM E 325
CHEM E 326
CHEM E 326; CHEM E 340 which may be taken concurrently; HCDE/ENGR 231
CHEM E 341
CHEM E 355
CHEM E 375
CHEM E 435; CHEM E 465
CHEM E 436
CHEM E 455
CHEM E 480
CHEM E 481
Chemical Engineering
Chemical Engineering Computer Skills
Chemical Engineering Lab I
Chemical Engineering Thermodynamics
Choose one of the following:
Civil and Environmental Engineering
Classroom Calendars
Click on Import Plan (on right side of screen)
Click on SBSE Courses and Sample 4-year Course Plan . Review all 4 years of the plan.
Climate Impacts Group
College Home
College of the Environment
Committees
Communications
Comparison Table: BSE vs SBSE
Composite Materials in Manufacturing
Computation and Data Science
Computation and Data Science Elective list (1 course required)
Computer programming for students with significant previous programming experience. Emphasizes implementation and run-time analysis of data structures and algorithms using techniques including linked references, recursion, and object-oriented inheritance to solve computational problems motivated by modern societal and scientific needs.
Computer programming for students with some previous programming experience. Emphasizes program design, style, and decomposition. Uses data structures (e.g., lists, dictionaries, sets) to solve computational problems motivated by modern societal and scientific needs. Introduces data abstraction and interface versus implementation.
Computer Programming I
Computer Programming II
Computer Resources
Computer Science and Engineering
Concepts and techniques of optimizing chemical engineering processes and systems, including classical and direct methods of search, linear and nonlinear programming, dynamic programming, statistical experimental design, and evolutionary operation.
Conducting Financial, Environmental, and Social Responsibility Performance Research
Consumer Behavior
Contact Student & Academic Services
Contact Us
Cooperative Institute for Climate,
Corrosion and Wear of Materials
Cost Share
Course
Cr
CSE 121
CSE 121/122/123/142/143: Introduction to Computer Programming (various versions) (4 credits)
CSE 122
CSE 123
CSE 142
CSE 143
CSE 160
CSE 160: Data Programming (4 credits)
Current BSE majors are either starting year 3 (Junior year) or year 4 (Senior year) of the major. While all student situations are different, by and large, most Seniors will likely find it advantageous to stay in the BSE major, whereas many Juniors will likely find it advantageous to switch to the SBSE major. In the end though, it comes down to which set of requirements you would prefer to complete and which major title you would prefer. Please reach out to SEFS Advising if you have specific questions about your particular situation.
Current BSE Majors who know they wish to switch to the SBSE curriculum can do so by emailing a request to be switched to SEFS Advising .
Current UW students who want to download some or all of the 4-year course plan directly into MyPlan can do so by going to the SBSE sample 4-year course plan for importing into MyPlan (UW NetID required for access). Here are additional access instructions for current UW students:
Currently, the courses on each list are as follows. More courses are expected to be added.
Data Programming
Data Science and Materials Informatics
Department Requirements (62 Credits)
Describes water and air resources, parameters that characterize their quality, and how their use alters their properties. Elements of hydrology. Mass and energy balances as applied to environmental systems. Global environmental change. Basics of aquatic chemistry and microbiology applied to municipal water and wastewater treatment operation. Groundwater contamination and treatment.
Description
Description of manufacturing systems. Includes discussion of current trends in manufacturing. Introduces process flow analysis, manufacturing organizations including job-shop, assembly lines, and group technology, manufacturing inventory philosophies (just-in-time, MRP, OPT), work environment, and work simplification.
Director&#8217;s Office Staff
Director&#8217;s Welcome
Directories
Diversity (DIV): 5 credits. Course may also apply to an Area of Inquiry requirement
Diversity-DIV (3cr) – choose a course that also meets A&H/SSc for it to double-count
Diversity, Equity and Inclusivity Committee
Doctor of Philosophy Degree (Ph.D.)
Dynamics of process units and systems; instrumentation and control system design and analysis. Includes weekly laboratory.
E E 215
Earth and Space Sciences
EarthLab
Ecological Restoration (ECORES) Minor
ECON 200
ECON 200: Introduction to Microeconomics (5 credits)
ECON 200: Microeconomics
ECON 201: Introduction to Macroeconomics (5 Credits)
Either CHEM 142, CHEM 143, or CHEM 145
either CHEM 142/145; and either MATH 124/134
either CHEM 153, CHEM 162, or CHEM 165
either MATH 136; or MATH 126 and either MATH 207, MATH 307, or AMATH 351, any of which may be taken concurrently; and either PHYS 122 or PHYS 142
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Emeritus Faculty
Employment After Graduation: Looking for Jobs
Energy & Environment
Energy use. Fossil energy conversion. Oil, gas, coal resources. Air impacts. Nuclear energy principles, reactors, fuel cycle.
Engages engineering students&#8217; energy, creativity, social conscience, and on-the-ground perspectives in advancing diversity and inclusion in engineering. Students explore topics such as diversity in science and engineering, impact of unconscious bias, the role of allies, community engagement, and leadership in supporting all current and potential engineers. Credit/no-credit only
Engineering
Engineering Elective Credit (12 credits)
Engineering Exploration
Engineering Jordan: Water in an Arid Land Study Abroad
Engineering Statics
ENGR 101
ENGR 231 – Introduction to Technical Communication (3cr)
ENGR 401
Environmental and Forest Sciences
Environmental Engineering
Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management (ESRM) Major
ESRM 235/ECON 235/ENVIR 235: Introduction to Environmental Economics (5 credits)
ESRM 320
ESRM 320 : Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective (5 cr)
ESRM 320: Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective (5 credits)
ESRM 321
ESRM 321 : Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective (5 cr)
ESRM 321: Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective (5 credits)
ESRM 400
ESRM 400: Natural Resource Conflict Management (3 credits)
ESRM 423: International Trade, Marketing, and the Environment (3 credits)
ESRM 465: Economics of Conservation (3 credits)
ESRM Course Schedule and Major Requirements
ESRM Minor
ESRM: General Academic Requirements
ESRM: Natural Resource and Environmental Management Academic Requirements
ESRM: Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture Academic Requirements
ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Academic Requirements
ESRM: Wildlife Conservation Academic Requirements
Evaluation of air-quality models relating air pollution emissions to environmental concentrations. Emphasis on models used for air pollution permits. Emphasizes current problems.
Events
Examines impacts of a hot dry climate on water engineering systems by studying the engineered water cycle in Jordan including: water cycles and sources in Jordan; drinking water treatment and desalination; wastewater treatment and reuse; decentralized and on-site treatment; and ancient water engineering.
Expand/contract subsection
Facebook
Facility Resources
Faculty
Faculty and Research
Field Stations and Labs
Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective
For a full listing of all requirements, please see the SBSE Major in the UW Catalog .
For engineers with no prior experience in the biological sciences. Hands-on, project-based course covers fundamental concepts and language of biology, from an engineering perspective. Topics include functions of life, information processing, proteins, DNA, genetic variability, control loops, energetics, tissues, organisms, ecosystems.
Free elective credits to bring the credit total to 180.
Free Electives
Friday Harbor Laboratories
Fundamental concepts of air pollution Control including emission sources, atmospheric dispersion, ambient concentrations, and emission standards, with emphasis on processes and equipment for controlling emissions
Fundamental principles of structure and properties of materials utilized in the practice of engineering. Properties of materials as related to atomic, molecular, and crystalline structures. Metals, ceramics, multiphase systems, and polymeric materials. Relationships between structure and electrical, mechanical, thermal, and chemical properties.
Fundamentals of Electrical Engineering
Fundamentals of Managerial Accounting
Fundamentals of Materials Science
General Education Requirements
Giving
Global Business Perspectives
Graduate Admissions
Graduate Programs
Graduate Programs Resources and Forms
Graduate Student Directory
Graduate Student Travel Awards
Graduation
Graduation in the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering major
How to switch from the BSE major to the SBSE major
I BUS 300
Inclusive Excellence at SEFS
IND E 337
Industrial and Systems Engineering
Influence of structure on the mechanical properties materials. Definition of different mechanical properties and experimental techniques to measure them. Elastic, viscoelastic, and plastic deformation. Introduction to fracture.
INFO 180/CSE 180/STAT 180: Introduction to Data Science (4 credits)
Information for current BSE Majors considering a switch to the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering Major (SBSE)
instagram
Intranet
Intro to Composite Materials
Intro to Polymer Science & Engineering
Introduces wastewater treatment and systems, emphasizing fundamental biological, chemical, and physical processes related to protection of public health environmental quality and water reuse. Process analysis of the configuration and sizing of major types of treatment processes for various sizes of plants and effluent requirements.
Introduction of preparative methods of polymers; physical chemistry of polymeric molecules in solution, liquid and solid phase; thermodynamics of polymers; methods of characterization; mechanical properties; fabrication techniques; properties of commercial polymers.
Introduction to Accounting and Financial Reporting
Introduction to AutoCAD for Civil Engineers
Introduction to Chemical Principles in Environmental Engineering
Introduction to chemical processes occurring within soil, water, and air in natural and engineered environmental systems. Includes identification of inorganic and organic chemicals; fundamental thermodynamics and kinetics of chemical processes; examination of chemical processes in environmental and engineered systems; and impacts of chemicals and chemical processes on ecological and human health.
Introduction to computer programming for students without previous programming experience. Students write programs to express algorithmic thinking and solve computational problems motivated by modern societal and scientific needs. Includes procedural programming constructs (methods), control structures (loops, conditionals), and standard data types, including arrays.
Introduction to Computer Programming I
Introduction to Computer Programming II
Introduction to Computer Programming III
Introduction to computer programming. Assignments solve real data manipulation tasks from science, engineering, business, and the humanities. Concepts of computational thinking, problem-solving, data analysis, Python programming, control and data abstraction, file processing, and data visualization. Intended for students without prior programming experience. Cannot be taken for credit if credit received for either CSE 123 or CSE 143
Introduction to data science approaches and their applications to materials science research. Basic skills in data mining, data processing, and machine learning for materials research topics using Python taught through case studies and other methodologies.
Introduction to electrical engineering. Basic circuit and systems concepts. Mathematical models of components. Kirchhoff&#8217;s laws. Resistors, sources, capacitors, inductors, and operational amplifiers. Solution of first and second order linear differential equations associated with basic circuit forms.
Introduction to Manufacturing Systems
Introduction to Mechanics of Materials
Introduction to Modern Materials
Introduction to the concepts of stress, deformation, and strain in solid materials. Development of basic relationships among loads, stresses, and deflections of structural and machine elements such as rods, shafts, and beams. Load-carrying capacity of these elements under tension, compression, torsion, bending, and shear forces.
Introduction to Visualization and Computer-Aided Design
Items to Consider in Your Decision: Major Start
Jobs
Key
Kinematics & Dynamics
Kinematics of particles, systems of particles, and rigid bodies; moving reference frames; kinetics of particles, systems of particles, and rigid bodies; equilibrium, energy, linear momentum, angular momentum.
Lab Safety
Laboratory techniques, equipment, and underlying fundamentals in surface and colloid science. Experiments in the measurement of surface tension, adsorption, wetting and spreading, colloid properties, emulsion preparation and stability, electrophoresis, and interfacial hydrodynamics.
Leadership and Organizational Behavior
Leadership Development to Promote Equity in Engineering Relationships
Leadership, Critical Thinking, and Decision Making
Lectures on statistics, experimental design, instrumentation, laboratory safety, and report writing; laboratory experiments on fluid mechanics and heat transfer. Emphasis on teaming, experimental planning, procedures, report writing, and oral presentations.
Life Cycle Assessment: Fundamentals and Bio-Based Applications
linkedin
M E 230
Make a Gift
Manufacturing processes for composite materials, with a focus on thermosets. Composite manufacturing process from raw materials manufacturing to shipping final products. Controlling parameters leading to defects. Balance between design and quality system manufacturing controls, relationship of process development to engineering design, and procedures for materials and process changes. Identification and repair of manufacturing anomalies.
Maps
Marine and Environmental Affairs
Marine Biology
Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective
Marketing Concepts
Master of Forest Resources (M.F.R.) Forest Management Degree
Master of Forest Resources (MFR) Forest Management Degree
Master of Science (M.S.) and Ph.D. Graduate Admissions
Master of Science (M.S.) Degree
Master of Science (M.S.)/Master of Arts in International Studies (MAIS) Concurrent Degree
Master of Science (MS)/Master of Public Administration (MPA) Concurrent Degree
Materials and advances in materials are at the core of a large number of significant technological advances. Seminar format highlights processing, properties, and uses of a broad class of materials for a variety of applications, each introduced by a faculty member from the department.
Materials Science and Engineering
MATH 112, MATH 124, MATH 134, or Q SCI 291; and either CHEM 120, CHEM 142, CHEM 143, CHEM 145, PHYS 114, PHYS 121, or PHYS 141
MATH 124 or MATH 112.
MATH 125
Math and Statistics (18-26 credits)
McIntire-Stennis (MS) Cooperative Forestry Research Program
ME 123
ME 124
Mechanical Behavior of Materials I
Mechanical Engineering
Mechanisms of corrosion, thermodynamics, kinetics of corrosion. Passivity; Pourbaix diagrams; corrosion rate testing and measurements; forms of corrosion; effects of alloy and environmental variables; corrosion testing. Wear mechanisms: adhesive, abrasive, erosive. Fretting; surface roughness, wear testing. Coatings for corrosion and wear protection.
Meeting Rooms Calendar
Methods of depicting three-dimensional objects and communicating design information. Development of three-dimensional skills through freehand sketching and computer-aided design using parametric solid modeling.
Methods of depicting three-dimensional objects and communicating design information. Development of three-dimensional visualization skills through computer-aided design using parametric solid modeling.
MFR Restricted Elective Courses
MGMT 300
MGMT 401
MGMT 403
Microstructural design and processing of composite materials; polymeric, metallic, and ceramic matrices; fibers and fiber-reinforced composites, thermal, mechanical, and electrical properties.
Minimum grade of 2.0 in A A 210
MKTG 301
MKTG 335
MKTG 450
Motivating High Performance
MSE 170
MSE 298
MSE 362
MSE 463
MSE 471
MSE 475
MSE 477
MSE 490
My UW
Natural Resource Conflict Management
News and Events
Newsletters
Note: This is a record of the academic requirements for the BSE major, which is no longer admitting students. The BSE major has been superseded by the SBSE major as of Autumn 2025
Ocean, and Ecosystem Studies
Oceanography
Once the classes are in your Plan, you will be able to register for the classes as normal
One course from the following elective list:
One course is required from each of the following two SBSE Elective Lists:
One Statistics course from the following (3-5 credits): QSCI 381, IND E 315, or STAT 390
OPMGT 301
Our Legacy
Overview of life cycle thinking, the fundamental theory of the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) framework, and practical applications in supporting real-world decision-making. Presents state-of-the-art LCA tools, industrial case studies, and advanced LCA methodologies using the framework of bio-based materials and bioenergy solutions. Emphasizes systems thinking.
Partnerships with Indigenous Tribes and Nations
Phase equilibria and chemical equilibria in multicomponent systems; theories of solution; chemical reaction analysis.
Postdoctoral Scholars
Prerequisites
Principles of Operations Management
Principles of Selling
Privacy
Process Dynamics & Control
Process Optimization
Program on Climate Change
Program on the Environment
Proposal Templates
Prospective Graduate Student Visit Day
Provides an introduction to engineering drafting and graphical communication. Includes application of drafting standards and structure as well as creating and modifying basic drawings in 2D and 3D drafting in AutoCAD. Introduces reading plan sets and creating portions of plan sets applied to civil and environmental engineering fields.
Public Events Calendar
Pursuing Study Abroad Opportunities
Q SCI 256: Introduction to Data Science Methods for Environmental Science (4 credits)
Quaternary Research Center
Reasoning (RSN): 10 credits met by other program requirements
Recommended: completion of guided self-placement test at https://placement.cs.washington.edu/
Recommended: CSE 121 or completion of guided self-placement test at https://placement.cs.washington.edu/
Recommended: CSE 122, or completion of guided self-placement test at https://placement.cs.washington.edu/
Recommended: prior programming experience; some experience with Python helpful.
Reimagining Anderson Hall
Required Autumn quarter first year course for ENGRUD students.
Research Archive
Research Centers, Programs and Partnerships
Research Grants & Contracts
Routing Proposals & Deadlines
SBSE Course Schedule and Major Requirements
SBSE Employer Recruiting Program
SBSE Faculty
SBSE in the News – for Prospective Majors
SBSE is a Minimum Requirements major, which means all students who complete the Minimum Requirements for Admission are admitted to the major. All details regarding SBSE Admission are available under SBSE Admissions .
SBSE Major Requirements
SBSE Schedule and Major Requirements
SBSE Schedule and Major Requirements | School of Environmental and Forest Sciences
School of Environmental and Forest Sciences
Sciences (39-42 Credits)
Search
SEFS 519
SEFS Advisory Committee
SEFS and UW Student Organizations
SEFS Endowed Professorships
SEFS Forms and Policies
SEFS Graduate Student Symposium
SEFS Minors
SEFS Proposal Approval
SEFS Scholarships and Funding Information
SEFS Senior Capstone Program
SEFS Student Blog
SEFS Student Internship Opportunities
SEFS Undergraduate Honors Program
sefs@uw.edu
Skip to main content Skip to footer unit links
Social Science (SSc) &#8211; formerly I&S (10cr) (other than ECON 200)
Social Science (SSc): ECON 200; 10 credits chosen from the University SSc list (outside the major); 5 credits met by coursework in the major
Staff
Staff login
Strategic Plan
Student Forms
Student Procedures and Policies
Students
Students admitted after Autumn quarter of Junior year (year 3) will need to be working on other courses required for the major and begin the SBSE courses in the following Autumn quarter. SBSE course content builds from quarter to quarter, with completion of previous courses a prerequisite for enrolling in courses in the following quarter, so beginning the first quarter of SBSE-prefixed courses in Autumn quarter of year 3 is required.
Surface & Colloid Science Lab
Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major [formerly BSE]
Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major Elective Lists
Sustaining Our World Lecture Series
Terms
The table compares the present BSE major requirements to the SBSE major requirements.
Title
To complete the BSE degree with a transcripted option in Business, all the above courses plus an additional 12 credits minimum must be completed:
To earn a B.S in Bioresource Science and Engineering, undergraduate students complete the following courses.
To earn a B.S in Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering, undergraduate students complete a minimum of 180 credits.
Twitter
Undergraduate Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions Advising
Undergraduate Advising Services
Undergraduate Programs
Undergraduate Research Opportunities
University of Washington
Use Excel, Matlab, and AspenPlus to solve typical chemical engineering problems. Solve realistic problems and explore alternatives that would be inaccessible for hand calculations. Includes equations of state, chemical equilibrium of simultaneous reactions, phase equilibria, plug flow reactors, heat transfer in 1-D, and time-dependent heat transfer.
Using ESRM 399 B section credits for your Internship
UW Botanic Gardens
UW Home
UW SEFS (@ sefs_uw ) • Instagram photos and videos
View this profile on Instagram
Visualization and Computer-Aided Design Laboratory
W Credits or Additional Composition (10 credits): ENGR 231 (3 Credits): remaining W credits satisfied by coursework in Major
Washington Sea Grant
Wastewater Reuse and Resource Recovery
When to start the SBSE Major &#8211; Timing is Important
width="215px" height="12px" class="college-name" alt="UW College of the Environment" viewBox="33 379.4 677.4 34.6" style="enable-background:new 33 379.4 677.4 34.6;"
width="215px" height="14px" class="uw-name" viewBox="-70 381.4 469.1 31.6" style="enable-background:new -70 381.4 469.1 31.6;"
width="252.993px" height="17.033px" viewBox="0 0 252.993 17.033" enable-background="new 0 0 252.993 17.033"
Wildlife Graduate Studies
xml:space="preserve" alt="University of Washington">
xml:space="preserve">
You will have the option of downloading the courses required for the current quarter, or you can download multiple quarters or the whole Plan. If you have other courses in your plan for the quarters in question, those classes will not be deleted. Review the download instructions for more information.
