Owner: uw-seattle-physics:pathway:teaching-physics-track
Source: https://phys.washington.edu/physics-bs-degree-requirements
Title: Physics B.S. Degree Requirements | Department of Physics | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] B.S. Degree
100-level:
200-level:
2025-26 Quarterly Course Offerings
Advice For Prospective Majors
Advice for Students
Applied physics track
Applied Physics Track
B.S. Degree
Bachelor of Science in Physics
Biological physics track (No longer accepting new students as of Spring 2024)
BS Degree Requirements Before Autumn 2021
Capstone Options
Common requirements, all tracks
Common Requirements, All Tracks (52 credits)
Comprehensive & Applied Physics Track Electives
Comprehensive Physics Track
Comprehensive track
Continuation Policy
Courses
Declaring a Physics Major
Declaring Major
Differential Calculus (5)
Electromagnetism (5)
Every Physics B.S. degree option requires completion of a selection of courses plus fulfilment of a capstone requirement involving activities outside a typical classroom. Continuation in the major requires maintaining satisfactory progress. For further information on the range of activies which may be used to satisfy the capstone requirement for each degree track, and on satisfactory progress criteria, refer to:
For students interested in biophysics or medical physics
Graduation
Home
Honors in Physics
Integral Calculus (5)
Maps
Math 124 or Math 134
Math 125 or Math 135
Math 126 or Math 136
Math 207 or AMath 351
Math 208 or AMath 352
Math 209 or AMath 353
Math 224
Mechanics (5)
Mentoring Program
Multivariate Calculus (5)
MyUW
Our Physics B.S. degree program is one of the largest in the nation, with 175 degrees awarded annually. Graduates pursue diverse paths including further studies in physics, teaching careers, and positions in the private sector. The program offers three B.S. degree tracks: Comprehensive Physics, Applied Physics, and Teaching Physics, allowing students to tailor their degree to their interests and goals. Students choose a track when declaring a major, but can change it anytime before applying to graduate.
PhD Program
Phys 121 or Phys 141
Phys 122 or Phys 142
Phys 123 or Phys 143
Phys 224
Phys 225
Phys 226
Phys 227
Phys 228
Phys 231
Phys 294
Physics B.S. Degree Requirements
Physics Minor
Professional Master's
Programs & Courses
Quick Links
Requirements
Share
Society of Physics Students (SPS)
Student Services
Summer REU at UW
Teaching physics track
Teaching Physics Track
The Applied Physics track is ideal for students pursuing technical jobs with a Physics B.S., offering a broad grounding in physics with fewer required courses and less intense math. It allows students to diversify skills in climate science, data science, electrical engineering, aerospace, or entrepreneurship, so students can easily pursue a double major in another STEM field. Unique requirements include a statistics-focused lab, a relevant computer programming class, and elective options in related science areas.
The Comprehensive track is for students seeking a strong foundation in physics, including in-depth mathematical understanding. It is ideal for those planning to pursue a career in physics or related fields, as well as those considering graduate studies in physics or astronomy. To fully prepare for graduate school, take as many upper-division courses and research opportunities as possible.
The course requirements for a Physics B.S. degree begin with a common set of course options, applicable to all degree tracks, followed by a selection of additional option-specific courses. Note that any single course may satisfy at most one physics-specific degree requirement.
The Teaching Physics track is for those interested in teaching physics or math at pre-college levels, as well as for students pursuing careers in science journalism or other fields involving the communication of physics to a broader audience. The track includes the Physics by Inquiry sequence, Phys 407 / 408 / 409 , to develop conceptual understanding and communication skills without college-level math. Students in this track can benefit from and contribute to the UW's esteemed Physics Education Research Group .
Topics
Transfer Credit
Undergraduate Research
Waves, Optics & Heat (5)
You are here
