Owner: uw-seattle-materials-science-engineering:pathway:nme-option
Source: https://mse.washington.edu/current/undergrad/courses
Title: B.S. degree requirements | UW Materials Science and Engineering

[Supplemental official source] Nanoscience & Molecular Engineering Option Requirements
*NME 220 must be taken in the spring of the sophomore or junior year.
‡ As of autumn 2021, MATH 307, MATH 308, MATH 309, and MATH 324 are renumbered as MATH 207, MATH 208, MATH 209, and MATH 224, respectively. Students can apply either the 200- or 300-level number for each course toward their degree requirements.
15
24 credits in Arts and Humanities (A&H), Social Sciences (SSc), and Diversity (DIV).
24 credits required of mathematics coursework.
3
4
BIOEN 423
BIOEN 492/CHEM E 458
BIOEN/CHEM E 490
BIOEN/CHEM E 491
Calculus with Analytic Geometry I, II, III
Concentration areas
Controlled-Release Systems (offered W)
Course #
Course Name
Credits
Engineering Materials for Biomedical Applications (offered A)
Expand All / Collapse All
Graduation requirements
IND E 250
IND E 315
Introduction to Differential Equations (acceptable substitute AMATH 351)
Introduction to Molecular and Nanoscale Principles
Introduction to Synthetic Biology (offered A) (Prereq MATH 207 or MATH 307 and MATH 208 or MATH 308)
Junior-Start Plan of Study : For UW and Transfer students starting in MSE in Autumn quarter junior year, and ENGRUD students starting in the major after Autumn of sophomore year.
Linear Analysis
MATH 124, 125, 126
MATH 207 (or MATH 307)‡
MATH 208 (or MATH 308)‡
MATH 209 (or MATH 309)‡
MATH 224 (or MATH 324)‡
Mathematics requirements
Matrix Algebra with Applications
Nanoscience & Molecular Engineering Option
Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering (NME) Option
NME 220*
NME core (4 credits)
NME electives (15 credits required)
NME Option admission
NME Option requirements
NME Option students complete all MSE degree requirements below, except the 15 credit Technical Elective requirement. In place of the 15 credit Technical Elective require, NME Option students complete a 19 credit NME Core and Elective Requirement, which is detailed at Nanoscience & Molecular Engineering Option Requirements .
One (1) Math Elective:
PDFs of graduation requirements and a sample 4-year course schedule are available for students:
Plans of study for MSE students
PLEASE NOTE: Quarter offerings listed are from the UW Catalog and are subject to change (might not be offered, might be offered in a different quarter)
Probability and Statistics for Engineers (counts in this category OR in the Engineering Fundamentals elective category, NOT both)
Sophomore-Start Plan of Study : For ENGRUD students starting in MSE in Autumn quarter sophomore year.
Students admitted by direct admission or early admission can declare the option after they complete NME 220. To declare the option, students need to complete a Change of Major form with the academic adviser. Students applying for upper admission or junior standing in the MSE degree program should declare their desire to complete the option when they apply to MSE.
Students complete all MSE degree requirements except the 15 credit Technical Elective requirement. In place of the 15 credit Technical Elective requirement, NME Option students complete the 19 credit NME Core and Elective Requirements below.
Students who complete the MSE NME requirements, will graduate with a Bachelor of Science in Materials Science and Engineering (Nanoscience & Molecular Engineering Option) .
The degree option introduces students to nanoscale principles in molecular engineering, provides hands-on experience and stresses the interdisciplinary aspects of this field.
The MSE degree offers a large number of course elective options. For advice on choosing pertinent electives to support your interests, please check out MSE Concentration Areas .
The Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering (NME) Option offers a discipline-tailored curriculum in Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering to a variety of majors in departments of the College of Engineering and the College of Arts and Sciences.
