Owner: uw-seattle-sustainable-bioresource-systems-engineering:pathway:required-sustainable-forest-management-option-courses
Source: https://sefs.uw.edu/students/undergraduate/sbse-major/requirements/
Title: SBSE Schedule and Major Requirements | School of Environmental and Forest Sciences

-->
[Note: this list last updated July 23, 2025]
[Supplemental official source] BSE Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] BSE Majors Considering the Switch to the SBSE Major
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: Natural Resource and Environmental Management Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: Wildlife Conservation Academic Requirements
*Many of the credits for this minor are completed through the required wildlife coursework
&copy; 2026 University of Washington |
<!--
<svg id="college_black_logo" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
<svg version="1.1" id="university_logo_black" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
<svg version="1.1" id="university_logo_white" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
| (206) 543-2730
10 credits chosen from the University SSc list (outside the major); 10 credits met by coursework in the major
10 Writing (W) credits met by other courses in the major
4
5
5 Credits English Composition (ENGL 131 Preferred)
A minor in quantitative science is recommended for graduate study. See more on this minor here .
AA 260
ABET Accreditation: BSE
ABET Accreditation: SBSE
About
About SEFS Minors
About the Rooms
Academic and Health & Wellness Support Resources
Academic Planning Resources
Academic Policies
Adaptive Management Elective: Choose one course from the following list (5 credits)
Additional NSc credits (20 credits): 10 credits chosen from the University NSc list (outside the major); 10 credits met by coursework in the major
Adjunct Faculty
Admission to the Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management (ESRM) Major
Admission to the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) major
Admission to the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major
Admissions
Affiliate Faculty
All pathways in ESRM require the same set of ESRM Core courses, UW General Education requirements, and fundamental Science, Math, and Social Science course content. The only distinction is in the final set of upper division course requirements (40-55 credits, depending on the pathway chosen and the classes selected within that pathway).
All prospective SBSE students should be aware that while students can join the major at any time, the SBSE-prefixed courses begin in Autumn Quarter of Junior Year (year 3). Students admitted prior to this need to be completing all of the courses included in years 1 and 2 of the SBSE academic plan so they are ready to start the SBSE-prefixed courses in Autumn of year 3. There are two years (6 quarters, Autumn-Spring) of required SBSE-prefixed courses.
All UW Courses are listed in the UW Course Descriptions . Departments with specific courses identified below: A A , AMATH , BSE , CHEM , CSE , ECON , ENGL , ESRM , INFO , MATH , PHYS , Q SCI , SBSE ,
Alumni
AMATH 301: Beginning Scientific Computing (4 credits)
Anderson Hall, Box 352100 Seattle, WA 98195
Aquatic and Fishery Sciences
Areas of Inquiry: Arts and Humanities (A&H) and Social Science (SSc)
Areas of Inquiry: Natural Sciences (NSc)
Arts and Humanities (A&H): 10 credits Chosen from the University A&H list
Atmospheric and Climate Science
Back to Top
Basic Skills
Be Boundless
Best Practices for PIs
Beth Gardner (lead), Sarah Converse, Joshua Lawler, Alex McInturff, L. Monika Moskal, Laura Prugh, Sandor Toth, and Aaron Wirsing.
Bioresource Science and Engineering - Business Option: Engineering Electives
Both prospective transfer student applicants and current UW students can download this SBSE 4-year course plan document and use it to plan your required courses.
Brockman Memorial Tree Tour
BSE 210
BSE 248
BSE 391
BSE 392
BSE 406
BSE 410
BSE 420
BSE 421
BSE 422
BSE 426
BSE 430
BSE 436 Pulp and Paper Laboratory II (4 cr)
BSE 480 Bioresource Design I (4 cr) (first Capstone course)
BSE 481 Bioresource Design II (5 cr) (second Capstone course)
BSE 497 Internship (1 cr)
BSE Academic Requirements
BSE Admissions Events
BSE Major Requirements
BSE Major: Business Option
BSE Majors Considering the Switch to the SBSE Major
BSE/ESRM 300
Business, Policy, and Economics
Business, Policy, and Economics (1 course required)
Calendars
Carbon-Related Research at SEFS
Career Opportunities
Career Opportunities and Graduate Study
Center for Quantitative Science
CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 162 (or CHEM 143, 153; or CHEM 145, 155, 165; (CHEM 223 or CHEM 237 or CHEM 257)
CHEM 142, CHEM 152, CHEM 162 (or CHEM 143, 153; or CHEM 145, 155, 165); CHEM 237, CHEM 238
Choose one course from each topic area:
Choose one from the following list (3 credits minimum) :
Choose one of the following:
Classroom Calendars
Click here to join the Wildlife Conservation Option
Click on Import Plan (on right side of screen)
Click on SBSE Courses and Sample 4-year Course Plan . Review all 4 years of the plan.
Climate Impacts Group
College Home
College of the Environment
Committees
Communications
Comparison Table: BSE vs SBSE
Completing a Senior Capstone is required for the Wildlife Conservation option. Wildlife Conservation students may choose any of the three capstone options. Go to the Capstone page for more Capstone details.
Computation and Data Science
Computation and Data Science Elective list (1 course required)
Computer Resources
Contact Student & Academic Services
Contact Us
Cooperative Institute for Climate,
Core Engineering Requirements
Cost Share
Course
Courses already encoded on the REEH degree audit
Cr
CSE 121/122/123/142/143: Introduction to Computer Programming (various versions) (4 credits)
CSE 160: Data Programming (4 credits)
Current BSE majors are either starting year 3 (Junior year) or year 4 (Senior year) of the major. While all student situations are different, by and large, most Seniors will likely find it advantageous to stay in the BSE major, whereas many Juniors will likely find it advantageous to switch to the SBSE major. In the end though, it comes down to which set of requirements you would prefer to complete and which major title you would prefer. Please reach out to SEFS Advising if you have specific questions about your particular situation.
Current BSE Majors who know they wish to switch to the SBSE curriculum can do so by emailing a request to be switched to SEFS Advising .
Current UW students who want to download some or all of the 4-year course plan directly into MyPlan can do so by going to the SBSE sample 4-year course plan for importing into MyPlan (UW NetID required for access). Here are additional access instructions for current UW students:
Currently, the courses on each list are as follows. More courses are expected to be added.
Description
Director&#8217;s Office Staff
Director&#8217;s Welcome
Directories
Diversity (DIV): 5 credits. Course may also apply to an Area of Inquiry requirement
Diversity, Equity and Inclusivity Committee
Doctor of Philosophy Degree (Ph.D.)
Earth and Space Sciences
EarthLab
Ecological Restoration (ECORES) Minor
ECON 200
ECON 200: Introduction to Microeconomics (5 credits)
ECON 201: Introduction to Macroeconomics (5 Credits)
Economics and Society Elective: Choose one course from the following list (3-5 credits)
Ecosystem Threats Elective: Choose one course from the following list (3-5 credits)
Emeritus Faculty
Employment After Graduation: Looking for Jobs
Environmental and Forest Sciences
Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management (ESRM) Major
Ernesto Alvarado, Gregory Ettl, Jim Fridley, Brian J. Harvey, Britt Johnson, L. Monika Moskal, Sergey Rabotyagov, Clare Ryan, Patric Tobin, Sándor F. Tóth, Eric Turnblom (lead), Aaron Wirsing
ESRM 235/ECON 235/ENVIR 235: Introduction to Environmental Economics (5 credits)
ESRM 320
ESRM 320 : Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective (5 cr)
ESRM 320 (5) Marketing and Human Resources
ESRM 320 (5) Marketing/Management Sustainability Perspective
ESRM 320: Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective (5 credits)
ESRM 321
ESRM 321 : Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective (5 cr)
ESRM 321: Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective (5 credits)
ESRM 323 (5) Silviculture
ESRM 325 (3) Environmental Applications of Plants: Bioenergy and Bioremediation
ESRM 331 (3) Landscape Plant Recognition
ESRM 350 (5) Wildlife Biology and Conservation
ESRM 351 (5) Wildlife Research Techniques
ESRM 362 (5) Intro to Restoration Ecology
ESRM 368 (4) Natural Resources Measurements
ESRM 371 (5) Environmental Sociology
ESRM 381 (4) Management of Wildland Recreation and Amenities
ESRM 381 (4) Wildland Recreation and Amenities Management
ESRM 400 (3) Natural Resource Conflict Management
ESRM 400: Natural Resource Conflict Management (3 credits)
ESRM 401 (5) Forest Ecology
ESRM 403 (4) Econ Development in Developing World
ESRM 404 (5) Plant Microbiology Laboratory
ESRM 409 (5) Soil Ecology
ESRM 410 (5) Forest Soils and Site Productivity
ESRM 411 (3) Plant Propagation
ESRM 412 (3) Native Plant Production
ESRM 415 (5) Terrestrial Invasion Ecology
ESRM 420 (5) Wildland Fire Management
ESRM 421 (3) Role of Culture and Place in Natural Resource Stewardship: Yakama Nation Experience
ESRM 422 (2; max 4) Plant Microbiology Seminar
ESRM 423 (3) International Trade, Marketing, and the Environment
ESRM 423: International Trade, Marketing, and the Environment (3 credits)
ESRM 425 (5) Ecosystem Management
ESRM 426 (4) Wildland Hydrology
ESRM 426 (4) Wildland Hydrology OR ESRM 447 (3) Watershed Ecology and Management
ESRM 428 (5) Principles of Silviculture and Their Application
ESRM 430 (5) Hi-Res Remote Sensing
ESRM 435 (3) Insect Ecology
ESRM 435 (3) Insect Ecology OR ESRM 478 Plant Ecophysiology (5)
ESRM 441 (5) Landscape Ecology
ESRM 447 (5) Watershed Ecology and Management
ESRM 448 (2) Watershed Ecology and Management Lab
ESRM 450 (5) Wildlife Ecology and Conservation
ESRM 451 (3) Analytical Methods in Wildlife Science
ESRM 452 (3) Field Ornithology
ESRM 453 (3) Ecology and Biology of Mammals
ESRM 458 (5) Management of Endangered, Threatened and Sensitive Species
ESRM 458 (5) Management of Endangered, Threatened, and Sensitive Species
ESRM 459 (3) Wildlife Conservation in Northwest Ecosystems
ESRM 459 (3) Wildlife Conservation in NW Ecosystems
ESRM 461 (5) Forest Management and Economics
ESRM 461/SBSE 461 (5) Forest Management and Economics
ESRM 465 (3) Economics of Conservation
ESRM 465: Economics of Conservation (3 credits)
ESRM 468 (5) Forest Operations
ESRM 470 (5) Natural Resource Policy and Planning
ESRM Course Schedule and Major Requirements
ESRM Minor
ESRM students can join the Wildlife Conservation Option at any time, though must complete certain ESRM major graduation requirements first, and fill out a plan of study regarding how they will complete all of the degree requirements.
ESRM: General Academic Requirements
ESRM: Natural Resource and Environmental Management Academic Requirements
ESRM: NREM Course Requirements
ESRM: REEH Course Requirements
ESRM: Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture Academic Requirements
ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Academic Requirements
ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Academic Requirements | School of Environmental and Forest Sciences
ESRM: Wildlife Conservation Academic Requirements
Events
Expand/contract subsection
Facebook
Facility Resources
Faculty
Faculty and Research
Field Stations and Labs
Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective
For a full listing of all requirements, please see the SBSE Major in the UW Catalog .
Forest Ecology and Biology
Forest Resource Management
Forest Resource Policy, Economics and Admin
Free elective credits to bring the credit total to 180.
Free Electives
Friday Harbor Laboratories
Giving
Global Business Perspectives
Graduate Admissions
Graduate Programs
Graduate Programs Resources and Forms
Graduate Student Directory
Graduate Student Travel Awards
Graduate Study
Graduation
Graduation in the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering major
How to switch from the BSE major to the SBSE major
I BUS 300
In the ESRM: Natural Resource and Environmental Management (NREM) Option, students complete the foundation ESRM coursework and then fill their major elective requirement with coursework in applied aspects of landscape ecology. NREM students learn to create, sustain, and/or alter landscapes for biological diversity.
In the ESRM: Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture degree option, students learn to produce plant materials, manage sustainable landscapes, and repair damaged ecosystems.
In the ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Option, for their final credits of degree requirements students acquire the knowledge and skills to measure and assess natural resources to understand the ecology of forest systems; manage for environmental services; treat forest fuels; achieve sustainable harvest; market and sell forest products; and understand how social, economic, and ecologic forces impact the management of forests and their resources.
Inclusive Excellence at SEFS
INFO 180/CSE 180/STAT 180: Introduction to Data Science (4 credits)
Information for current BSE Majors considering a switch to the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering Major (SBSE)
instagram
Intranet
Items to Consider in Your Decision: Major Start
Jobs
Joining the Wildlife Conservation Option
L. Monika Moskal
Lab Safety
Landscape ecology is an integrated approach to studying the interaction of physical, biological and social processes on ecological systems at a wide range of spatial scales. The NREM option focuses on applied aspects of landscape ecology that create, sustain and alter landscapes to achieve biological diversity and integrity, as well as social purposes.
Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) is used here to measure a forest. LIDAR is a remote sensing method that uses light in the form of pulsed laser to measure variable distances to Earth.
linkedin
Make a Gift
Maps
Marine and Environmental Affairs
Marine Biology
Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective
Marketing Concepts
Master of Forest Resources (M.F.R.) Forest Management Degree
Master of Forest Resources (MFR) Forest Management Degree
Master of Science (M.S.) and Ph.D. Graduate Admissions
Master of Science (M.S.) Degree
Master of Science (M.S.)/Master of Arts in International Studies (MAIS) Concurrent Degree
Master of Science (MS)/Master of Public Administration (MPA) Concurrent Degree
MATH 124, 125, 126, MATH 207, MATH 208 (or MATH 134, 135, 136)
McIntire-Stennis (MS) Cooperative Forestry Research Program
Meeting Room Calendars
MFR Restricted Elective Courses
Minors to Consider
MKTG 301
MKTG 335
My UW
Need one course:
News and Events
Newsletters
Note: the BSE Course Prefix will be replaced by the SBSE course prefix in Autumn 2025 . Most SBSE-prefixed course titles are the same as the BSE course titles in the Catalog; any exceptions can be found in the SBSE course listings .
Ocean, and Ecosystem Studies
Oceanography
Once the classes are in your Plan, you will be able to register for the classes as normal
One course from the following elective list:
One course is required from each of the following two SBSE Elective Lists:
Our Legacy
Partnerships with Indigenous Tribes and Nations
PHYS 121 and PHYS 122 (or PHYS 141, 142)
PHYS 121, 122, 123 (or PHYS 141, 142, 143)
Postdoctoral Scholars
Prerequisites
Principles of Selling
Privacy
Program on Climate Change
Program on the Environment
Proposal Templates
Prospective Graduate Student Visit Day
Public Events Calendar
Pursuing Study Abroad Opportunities
Q SCI 256: Introduction to Data Science Methods for Environmental Science (4 credits)
QSCI 381 (or INDE 315 or STAT 390)
QSCI 482 (5) Statistical Inference in Applied Research
Quaternary Research Center
Reasoning (RSN): 10 credits met by other program requirements
Reimagining Anderson Hall
Required NREM Option Courses (29 credits)
Required REEH Option Elective Courses (complete a minimum 35 credits from this list; at least 15 credits at 400 level )
Required Sustainable Forest Management Option courses
Required Sustainable Forest Management Option Courses
Required Wildlife Conservation Option Courses
Research Archive
Research Centers, Programs and Partnerships
Research Grants & Contracts
Routing Proposals & Deadlines
Sándor Tóth (lead), Josh Lawler, Jon Bakker, Greg Ettl, Jerry Franklin, John Marzluff, Monika Moskal, Clare Ryan, Christian Torgersen and Kristiina Vogt.
SBSE 391
SBSE 392
SBSE 406
SBSE 410
SBSE 420
SBSE 422
SBSE 426
SBSE 430
SBSE Course Schedule and Major Requirements
SBSE Employer Recruiting Program
SBSE Faculty
SBSE in the News – for Prospective Majors
SBSE is a Minimum Requirements major, which means all students who complete the Minimum Requirements for Admission are admitted to the major. All details regarding SBSE Admission are available under SBSE Admissions .
SBSE Major Requirements
SBSE Schedule and Major Requirements
Schedules
Schedules are available on the Academic Planning Resources Page.
Schedules are available over on the Academic Planning Resource s page.
Schedules are available over on the Academic Planning Resources page.
School of Environmental and Forest Sciences
Search
SEFS 540 (5) Optimization Techniques for Natural Resources
SEFS Advisory Committee
SEFS and Affiliated Faculty
SEFS and Affiliated Faculty in the NREM area
SEFS and UW Student Organizations
SEFS Endowed Professorships
SEFS Faculty
SEFS Forms and Policies
SEFS Graduate Student Symposium
SEFS Minors
SEFS Proposal Approval
SEFS Scholarships and Funding Information
SEFS Senior Capstone Program
SEFS Student Blog
SEFS Student Internship Opportunities
SEFS Undergraduate Honors Program
sefs@uw.edu
Senior Capstone
Skip to main content Skip to footer unit links
Social Science (SSc): ECON 200; 10 credits chosen from the University SSc list (outside the major); 5 credits met by coursework in the major
Staff
Staff login
Strategic Plan
Student Forms
Student Procedures and Policies
Students
Students admitted after Autumn quarter of Junior year (year 3) will need to be working on other courses required for the major and begin the SBSE courses in the following Autumn quarter. SBSE course content builds from quarter to quarter, with completion of previous courses a prerequisite for enrolling in courses in the following quarter, so beginning the first quarter of SBSE-prefixed courses in Autumn quarter of year 3 is required.
Students earn a B.S. in Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management. The Option in Natural Resources and Environmental Management is noted on student transcripts only, not the diploma.
Students earn a B.S. in Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management. The option in Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture is noted on student transcripts, not the diploma .
Students earn a B.S., Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management: Option in Wildlife Conservation. Beginning with the Spring 2025 graduating class , majors, and options (when applicable) are printed on Bachelor degree diplomas .
Students earn a B.S., Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management. The Option in Sustainable Forest Management is noted on student transcripts only, not the diploma.
Students learn and apply fundamental concepts of biology, plant science, and ecology. This disciplinary knowledge, with supporting coursework and experience, allows students to become accomplished in producing plant materials, managing sustainable landscapes, repairing damaged ecosystems, and participating in large interdisciplinary projects.
Students may choose to apply for the Master of Forest Resources (MFR) degree. The MFR is a non-thesis profession master’s degree that can be completed in just one additional year if the Sustainable Forest Management option is completed. This advanced degree can provide additional experience for those desiring more in-depth knowledge of the field and for those inclined toward leadership roles in their careers.
Suggested: Completing the Quantitative Science Minor- 27 credits
Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major [formerly BSE]
Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major Elective Lists
Sustaining Our World Lecture Series
Terms
The Natural Resources and Environmental Management option is accredited by the Society of American Foresters through 2027.
The Sustainable Forest Management option is accredited by the Society of American Foresters through 2027.
The table compares the present BSE major requirements to the SBSE major requirements.
This SAF-accredited option can lead directly into an SAF-accredited Master of Forest Resources and/or can be used to satisfy the educational requirements of the SAF’s Candidate Certified Forester (CCF) title. Career possibilities include positions responsible for forest stand examination, stream sampling, amphibian and/or bird surveys as they relate to Habitat Conservation Plans, silviculture prescription writing, riparian management zone (stream buffer) layout, timber “cruising,” timber sale layout, and harvest setting layout.
This SAF-accredited option offers students postgraduate opportunities in conservation, land-use planning, natural resource management, and ecological research. Some examples of groups that have interests in natural resource management include Environmental NGOs (e.g., The Nature Conservancy, Trust for Public Land, The World Wildlife Fund), local land trusts, timber and mining companies, state wildlife and natural resource agencies, the U.S. Forest Service, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the U.S. Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, environmental consulting firms, and city and county planning offices. The option will also prepare students for graduate work in ecology, conservation biology, natural resources, and land-use planning.
Title
To complete the BSE degree with a transcripted option in Business, all the above courses plus an additional 12 credits minimum must be completed:
To earn a B.S in Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering, undergraduate students complete a minimum of 180 credits.
Twitter
Undergraduate Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions Advising
Undergraduate Advising Services
Undergraduate Programs
Undergraduate Research Opportunities
University of Washington
Using ESRM 399 B section credits for your Internship
UW Botanic Gardens
UW Home
UW SEFS (@ sefs_uw ) • Instagram photos and videos
View this profile on Instagram
W Credits or Additional Composition (10 credits): ENGR 231 (3 Credits): remaining W credits satisfied by coursework in Major
Washington Sea Grant
When to start the SBSE Major &#8211; Timing is Important
width="215px" height="12px" class="college-name" alt="UW College of the Environment" viewBox="33 379.4 677.4 34.6" style="enable-background:new 33 379.4 677.4 34.6;"
width="215px" height="14px" class="uw-name" viewBox="-70 381.4 469.1 31.6" style="enable-background:new -70 381.4 469.1 31.6;"
width="252.993px" height="17.033px" viewBox="0 0 252.993 17.033" enable-background="new 0 0 252.993 17.033"
Wildlife Conservation is the science and art of managing animal populations and their related resources. In the ESRM: Wildlife Conservation Option, for their final 46 credits of degree requirements, students complete coursework in wildlife ecology, quantitative science, and the social and political aspects of wildlife conservation issues. Students can expect hands-on field experiences including how to identify, capture, and handle animals; and how to assess, map, and plan wildlife habitats. Instruction on writing technical reports and scientific papers, and presentation of findings and implementation of wildlife conservation plans will be covered.
Wildlife Graduate Studies
With the bachelor’s degree and relevant experience, career opportunities include working as entry-level wildlife managers, naturalists in national or state parks, or as field biologists for agencies and environmental consulting firms. Most professional positions in the wildlife field require a graduate degree and this option offers strong preparation for subsequent graduate work. Public agencies, such as the Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife, the Washington State Department of Natural Resources, the Washington State Department of Ecology, the U.S. Forest Service and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, hire wildlife professionals as do private sector environmental consulting firms, forest industry, and conservation organizations. The option also is an appropriate choice for students interested in subsequent professional degrees in public policy or environmental law.
xml:space="preserve" alt="University of Washington">
xml:space="preserve">
You will have the option of downloading the courses required for the current quarter, or you can download multiple quarters or the whole Plan. If you have other courses in your plan for the quarters in question, those classes will not be deleted. Review the download instructions for more information.
