Owner: uw-seattle-statistics:pathway:according-to-the-option-chosen
Source: https://stat.uw.edu/academics/undergraduate/statistics-bs/major
Title: Major Requirements | University of Washington Department of Statistics

[Supplemental official source] Honors Program
a detailed plan indicating which of the options they would like to pursue to obtain Departmental honors. In particular, according to the option chosen, the following will be needed:
a list of relevant experiences (e.g., internships, projects)
a statement of purpose that discusses their career goals
Academic ability as measured by GPA, factoring in difficulty and breadth of courses completed, frequency of incomplete courses, and number of repeated courses
Academic Advising
Accessibility
Admissions
All applicants will be evaluated using the following criteria:
An ePortfolio with at least five projects. The ePortfolio will be reviewed and approved by statistics faculty.
As part of their application, students will be asked to submit:
At least 3 credits of STAT 499 (independent study) or STAT 495 (service learning)
Be boundless
Community
Computing: STAT 302 and either CSE 163 (strongly recommended) or CSE 123.
Continuation and Honesty Policy
Courses
Courses for non-majors
Coursework plus ePortfolio option : At the application stage, students must: (1) indicate which graduate classes they are planning to take and when; (2) outline how they are planning to fulfill the research requirement. If the students plan to use DRP credits to complete the research requirement in this track, we expect them to have completed at least one credit before applying. If, on the other hand, they are going to use a small project with a faculty member or STAT 495, the name and email of the sponsor/mentor along with a brief description of the project must be submitted at this stage; (3) Include a plan for the ePortfolio and include a a github page containing an initial draft of the ePortfolio with at least two completed projects.
Double Majors
ePortfolio
Evaluation
Example of what your coursework will look like
FAQs
Footer menu
For more information on the ePortfolio, please click here .
For more information on the requirements of a thesis project, please click here .
Graduate
Honors Program
Honors Projects Archive (NA)
How to apply
In This Section
Internships & CPT
LING 421 R for Linguists (5)
LING 471 Computational Methods for Linguists (5)
LING 472 Introduction to Computational Linguistics (5) (prereq: 400 + either LING 461 or CSE 311)
LING 473 Basics for Computational Linguistics (3) (Prerequisite: CSE 326; STAT 391)
Major Requirements
Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.7 in the statistics, computer science and mathematics major requirements completed through the junior year.
Minimum cumulative UW GPA of 3.3
Motivation.
Nine credits of STAT 499. These must extend over at least 2 consecutive quarters (Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring). Most students will work on their thesis over the course of three quarters and take three credits of STAT 499 each quarter. The plan must be discussed with their faculty supervisor and is subject to their availability. This research will culminate in a senior paper and a presentation of that work in the Annual Undergraduate Research Symposium held each May, or another venue (such as a national or regional meeting) acceptable to the faculty.
Non-Degree Enrollment
One two-course graduate sequence to be chosen from (a) STAT 512 + STAT 513 or (b) STAT 516 + STAT 517 or (c) STAT 535 and either STAT 538 or STAT 548/CSE 547.
Option 1: Coursework plus ePortfolio option (9 – 11 credits):
Option 2: Thesis option (9 credits):
Quality and feasibility of the submitted plan.
Relevant work and life experience.
Requirements to earn Departmental Honors
STAT 311 and STAT 394 are among the pre-requisites for admission and therefore they are usually taken early in the sophomore year (Plan A), so that students can apply to the Stat major in Spring of their sophomore year. Once students enroll in the major, they should start working on the core major requirements by taking STAT 341 and STAT 342, which represent the statistical theory requirements, serve as pre-requisites for other core courses and give the foundations to understand Machine Learning classes (such as STAT 435) and other breadth requirements classes. STAT 302 and STAT 303 provide, respectively, the foundations of statistical computing and an understanding of the ethical implications of statistical decision-making algorithms. We expect students to take them either during their junior or their senior year. The senior year should be mainly dedicated to the capstone project and to electives; the specific courses will largely depend on the selected track and may require pre-requisites.
Statistics B.S.
Statistics B.S. Tracks
Statistics Minor
Students can choose between the following two options:
Students must be declared STAT majors and must have completed STAT 342 at the point of application.
Students who have AP calculus and CS credits from high-school may be eligible to apply for admission to the Statistics major in their freshmen year (see Plan B).
Students will be required to maintain a 2.7 GPA in each of the two courses corresponding to their chosen graduate sequence.
The following flow-charts will help you understand the STAT 300 level courses and their pre-requisites. For a full list of courses please see this page .
The student may receive up to five credit hours of W course credit for writing the thesis based upon the University of Washington guidelines for W credits and on the discretion of the faculty supervisor.
their transcripts,
Thesis
Thesis option : Students who choose the thesis option must already have an advisor when they apply to the Honors program. The student and their advisor must agree on a project and submit a title and a project proposal of 300-600 words as part of their application. Identifying an advisor and agreeing on a project with their advisor is the student’s responsibility.
This is a constrained capacity program and satisfying the minimum admission requirements does not guarantee acceptance. The Department of Statistics will only accept a small proportion of each cohort into the honors program. The minimum requirements are the following:
Transfer Credit Evaluations
Undergraduate
University of Washington
