Owner: uw-seattle-jewish-studies:pathway:china-concentration
Source: https://jsis.washington.edu/programs/undergraduate/jewish-studies/
Title: Jewish Studies - Major - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies

Major
Minor
Courses
Language Courses
FAQs
Faculty
Major in Jewish Studies
50 credits , to include the following:
1. Jewish Language. Students must do one of the following:
Complete two years of college-level coursework in one Jewish language or demonstrate second year college-level proficiency in one Jewish language through a proficiency exam ;
Complete one year each of college-level coursework in two different Jewish languages or d emonstrate first year college-level proficiency in two different Jewish languages through a proficiency exam .
Jewish languages may include Biblical Hebrew, Modern Hebrew, Ladino, or Yiddish. Learn more about Jewish language offerings at UW here . Contact Jason Groves , the Jewish Studies faculty adviser, with additional questions regarding approved Jewish languages.
2. Introductory Courses (15 credits total):
RELIG 145: Introduction to Judaism (5 Ssc; AUT)
JEW ST 250/HSTCMP 250: Jewish Cultural History (5 Ssc; WIN)
One of JSIS 200, JSIS 201, or JSIS 202 (5 Ssc; AUT/WIN/SPR)
3. Minimum 35 credits of Jewish Studies courses from an approved list of electives , to include a minimum of 25 credits completed at the 300-400 level. May include a maximum of 10 credits from the second year of Jewish language courses.
4. Maximum 15 credits (exclusive of language) from an approved UW study abroad program may be counted towards the major.
5. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major.
To major in Jewish Studies, please schedule an appointment with a Jackson School Undergraduate Adviser for Jewish Studies majors.
Approved electives for the Jewish Studies major and minor
Contact an adviser with questions or for clarification.
Course #
Title
Credits
Type of Credit
Instructor
MODHEB 100
Introduction to Hebrew Language and Culture
2
A&H/Ssc
C/NC
Khazzam-Horovitz
RELIG 145
Introduction to Judaism (required for major/minor)
5
Ssc
Ahuvia/Pianko/Naar
JEW ST 175/
GERMAN 195
Popular Film and the Holocaust
5
A&H/
DIV
Block
