Owner: uw-seattle-italian
Source: https://www.washington.edu/students/gencat/program/S/FrenchandItalianStudies-1102.html#program-UG-ITAL-MAJOR
Title: 

[Supplemental official source] UW Italian Studies major status page
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
&copy; University of Washington | Seattle, WA
206-616-3486
206-616-5366
25 credits
30 credits
50 credits
55 credits
About
Accessibility
Additional Information
Additional Opportunities
Admission Requirements
Advanced: 10 credits at the 400-level. Transfer credits at the 400-level accepted only by petition.
Advising
Allows students to develop advanced French language skills and cultural fluency. French is a key language of government and non-governmental organizations, business, and the arts, and an official language of countries in Africa, Europe, the Americas, and Southeast Asia. Students refine skills in French while pursuing topics ranging from the development of the French language to contemporary debates on immigration. Students engage with cultural forms (art, literature, cinema, environment, sport) through a variety of lenses (language, gender, race, religion), and develop robust analytical and rhetorical skills to accompany advanced proficiency in the language.
Alumni
Alumni & Careers
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
Alumni Update
Application Information
Autumn in Nantes
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in French
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Italian
Back to Top
Be boundless
Beyond the practical, the department's commitment is to impart to our students the skills and the genuine desire to learn throughout their lives, fostering the type of cultural and intellectual flexibility that lends itself to the multiple work and personal changes that most will face over the course of their lives.
Box 354361
c-254 Padelford Hall
C252 Padelford Hall
C254 Padelford Hall
Calendar
Campus Safety
Capstone (5 credits): TXTDS 405
College of Arts & Sciences
College of Arts and Sciences
Community Outreach
Completion Requirements
Connect with us:
Contact department for requirements.
Contact Us
Core (25 credits): FRENCH 203, FRENCH 301, FRENCH 302, FRENCH 303; one of the following: FRENCH 320, FRENCH 376, FRENCH 378, or FRENCH 379.
Core Courses (10 credits): two courses from TXTDS 401, TXTDS 402, TXTDS 403, TXTDS 404, TXTDS 413, TXTDS 414
Core: 30 credits from ITAL 203, ITAL 301, ITAL 302, ITAL 304, and two courses at the ITAL 350-level
Coronavirus Resources for Students
Courses
Credential Overview
Current Student Information
Current Students
Department of French & Italian Studies
Department Scholarships: Scholarships for departmental study abroad programs are available. Program applicants are notified of opportunities by their program director.
Directories
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
Doctor Of Philosophy (French Studies)
Electives (10 credits): refer to program website for list of approved courses
Electives (see website or adviser for approved list of courses) (5 credits)
Electives: 15 credits above FRENCH 203 from an approved list. See adviser for approved list
Electives: 25 credits above ITAL 203 from an approved list of electives. See adviser for approved list.
Electives: Refer to department website for approved list of elective courses (5 credits)
Facebook
Faculty
Faculty & Staff
Faculty Website
Featured Courses
Fields of Interest
For Community Members
Formerly the Department of French and Italian Studies offered two minor credentials: (1) Minor in French Language, Sociolinguistics, and Translation; and (2) Minor in French Language, Literature, and Culture. As of winter quarter 2023, however, these two minor credentials have been replaced by a single minor. Please refer to the UW Seattle General Catalog Archive for information about the minor credentials.
Framing Rome: Summer Exploration Seminar
French & Italian Studies
FRENCH 203, FRENCH 301, FRENCH 302, FRENCH 303 (20 credits)
French and Italian Studies
French in Quebec City
French Studies
French Studies allows you to develop advanced French language skills and cultural fluency. French is a key language of government and non-governmental organizations, business, and the arts and an official language of countries in Africa, Europe, the Americas, and Southeast Asia. You will refine your skills in French while pursuing topics ranging from the literature of the European Middle Ages to contemporary popular culture. As you engage with cultural forms (art, literature, cinema, environment, sport) through a variety of lenses (language, gender, race, religion), you will develop robust analytical and rhetorical skills.
frenital@uw.edu
Graduate
Graduate Programs
Graduate Reading Tests
Graduate Students
History
Home
Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements.
Honors Program
Instagram
Instructional and Research Facilities: UW Rome Center in Rome, Italy.
Internships and Service Learning
ITAL 201, ITAL 202, ITAL 203; or ITAL 234 (15 credits)
Italian Studies
Italian Studies allows you to develop advanced Italian language skills and cultural fluency. Italy, the birthplace of the Renaissance, remains central in the realms of art, design, food, and manufacturing. In the major, you will refine your skills in Italian while pursuing topics ranging from Dante to contemporary popular culture. As you engage with cultural forms (art, literature, cinema, language and identity, fashion, immigration, religion), you will develop robust analytical, rhetorical, and methodological skills.
Italian Studies Perugia
Jobs
Learning Goals
Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: Students achieve levels of linguistic and cultural competency that allow them to pursue professional opportunities in a wide variety of internationally oriented fields and to be effective citizens in a rapidly changing world.
LinkedIn
Mailing List
Main menu
Major in Italian Studies
Major in Italian Studies | French & Italian Studies | University of Washington
Major Requirements
Make a Gift
Maps
Master Of Arts (Italian Studies)
Maximum 10 credits of approved study-abroad coursework may be petitioned to apply to the minor
Maximum 10 credits of approved study-abroad coursework may be petitioned to apply to the minor.
Maximum 15 credits of approved study-abroad coursework may be petitioned to apply to the major
Menu
Minimum 15 credits in courses taught in Italian
Minimum 15 credits taken from outside student's major requirements.
Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major
Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the minor
Minor in French
Minor in Italian Language and Culture
Minor in Textual Studies and Digital Humanities
Minor Requirements
Mission
Must include 5 credits at the ITAL 400-level. Transfer credits at the 400 level accepted only by petition
My UW
MyUW
News & Events
Newsletter
Non-Degree Study
Of Special Note: The department sponsors study-abroad programs in France, Italy, and Martinique. See adviser for details.
One course at the FRENCH 370 level or FRENCH 320 (5 credits)
One of ITAL 351, ITAL 352, ITAL 353, ITAL 354, ITAL 355, ITAL 356, ITAL 357 (5 credits)
Organizations and Links
Parents
People
Phone: (206) 616-3486
Photo Contest
Pinterest
Placement Tests
Please contact the Humanities Academic Services Center (HAS) at has-center@uw.edu with any questions about the Italian major or minor.
Please note at this time we are not able to offer the upper level courses for the Italian Studies major. Therefore we are not able to accept new students into the Italian Studies major and students may not declare the Italian Studies major. Please consider the minor in Italian Language & Culture.
Privacy
Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (French Studies)
Program of Study: Major: French
Program of Study: Major: Italian
Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Italian Studies)
Program of Study: Minor: French
Program of Study: Minor: Italian Language and Culture
Program of Study: Minor: Textual Studies and Digital Humanities
Program Overview
Programs & Courses
Projected Courses
Projects
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Recommended Preparation
Registration/Credit Policies
Research
Research, Internships, and Service Learning: The Rome Center offers one intern position per year, providing room and board and a modest stipend. Interns work in the administrative Rome/UW office and are required to follow an independent course of language and literature study or other proposed course of study.
Resources
Rome in Residence
Rules Docket
Scholarships, Fellowships, and Grants
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-4361
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Organizations/Associations: French Club, Italian Club.
Student Outcomes and Opportunities
Students
Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time.
Students with substantial foreign language fluency who combine language skills with a solid foundation in liberal education and adequate job preparation and internships find fulfilling occupations. . The combination of studies in foreign languages and international affairs is ideal for students seeking job opportunities in government (foreign service and diplomatic fields, intelligence agencies, immigration and customs, Department of Labor, law enforcement, armed forces, legal agencies, public aid, social and community work, and international agencies, such as the United Nations and UNICEF), business (airlines, marketing, banking/finance, multi-national corporations, shipping industry, travel and hotel industries, import/export firms, publishing houses, and consulting), and communication fields (journalism, radio and television, fashion enterprises, teaching/counseling, translation, bilingual office work, library/museum work, nursing, phone companies, art and cultural affairs, and film and theatrical industries).
Study Abroad
Study of textual forms from scrolls, manuscripts and printed books to digital texts and textual data, highlighting factors that have shaped their creation, editing, publication, and reception, historically and globally. Courses offer opportunities to work with primary sources and archival materials and to learn techniques for digitizing, editing and curating these materials as well as for analyzing digitized text as data. May be of interest to undergraduates interested in careers in editing and publishing, libraries, archives, cultural institutions, and working with cultural and literary texts in digital environments.
Submit an Update
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Community college students should take as many lower-division language courses as possible before transferring to the UW.
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: Transfer students should take as many lower-division French language courses as possible before transferring to the UW.
Summer in Paris
Summer Study
Support French & Italian Studies
Support Us
Teaching Assistants & Predoctoral Instructors
Terms
Textual Studies
The French minor provides students with the language skills and cultural knowledge that serve as the basis for further study and foster more meaningful experiences abroad. Language courses develop skills in oral and written expression while introducing cultural knowledge. Core courses that pursue topics ranging from the development of the French language to contemporary debates on immigration deepen cultural knowledge and refine language skills.
The Italian minor provides students with the language skills and basic cultural knowledge that serve as the basis for further study and foster more meaningful experiences abroad. Language courses develop your skills in oral and written expression while introducing cultural knowledge. Core courses that pursue topics ranging from Dante to contemporary popular culture deepen your cultural knowledge and refine your language skills.
The minor in Italian language and culture provides students with the language skills and basic cultural knowledge that serve as the basis for further study and foster more meaningful experiences abroad. Language courses develop skills in oral and written expression while introducing cultural knowledge. Core courses that pursue topics ranging from Dante to contemporary popular culture deepen cultural knowledge and refine language skills.
The study of French and Italian language and culture is more important than ever in our increasingly interconnected world. France and Italy are core members of the European Union and important players in the global economy and their cultures are among the world's richest and most influential. French and Italian are among the five most popular languages studied at American universities, ranking second and fifth respectively.
This program of study leads to the following credential:
Twitter
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington
Upcoming Courses
User account menu
Washington
We strive to prepare our students to become leaders in an increasingly diverse society by providing them with French and Italian cultural literacy in dialogue with global contexts, and professionally relevant linguistic, research, interpretive, and expressive skills and tools. Students learn to understand their multilingual, multicultural world in historical perspective, to convincingly convey this understanding to others in both English and one or both of our target languages, and to articulate and implement the career transferability of their skills.
Website
Why Study Italian?
You are here
YouTube
