Owner: uw-seattle-linguistics
Source: https://linguistics.washington.edu/ba-linguistics
Title: B.A. in Linguistics | Department of Linguistics | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Language Requirement page
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
A class on the (synchronic) linguistic structure of a particular language (e.g., SPLING 406 "Advanced Spanish Grammar") may also be used to satisfy one quarter of the language requirement (or may be applied to the elective requirement, but not both).
About
About the Program
Additional credits in linguistics or related fields. For full details, see the Elective Requirement section below.
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Advising
All Graduate Students
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
ASL courses
Available Projects
B.A. in Linguistics
B.A. in Linguistics | Department of Linguistics | University of Washington
Box 352425
Calendar
Careers
CLMS Students
College of Arts & Sciences
Computation, Language, & Meaning Band of Researchers
Computational Linguistics
Conference Room Calendar
Contact Us
Core courses (25 credits):
Course Catalog & Topics
Course Offerings
Courses
Courses used to satisfy the requirements for a second major may also be used to satisfy applicable Linguistics major requirements, such as the language and elective requirements.
Cumulative GPA must be 2.0 or higher.
Current & Upcoming
Degree Requirements
Department of Linguistics
Departmental Handbook and Bylaws
Directories
Dissertations, Theses & Papers
Diversity
Double Majors Involving Linguistics
Elective courses (20 credits):
Electives in Other Departments
Faculty
Fields of Interest
Financial Aid & Assistantships
Financial Resources and Approvals
For current course offerings, consult our Current Courses section. For complete lists and descriptions of the department's course offerings, consult the General Catalog:
For details, see Introductory Courses page.
For Faculty & Staff
Frequently Asked Questions
Funding Approvals for Purchasing & Hiring
Generally, any upper division courses (300 level or higher) in Linguistics or Romance Linguistics which you have not already used to satisfy the core course or language requirements may be applied to the elective requirement, with the exception that introductory linguistics courses may not be used to fulfill the elective requirement. Additionally, LING 220 and 270 may count towards the elective requirement. Many departments on campus offer classes that are related to linguistics. These may be counted toward the Linguistics Elective requirement. See the list of approved elective courses in other departments .
GPA Requirements:
Graduate
Graduate Students
Groups
Guggenheim Hall 4th Floor
Guidelines & Policies
Home
Honors & Awards
Honors Program
How to Apply
If you are a non-native speaker of English and wish to count English as one of your languages for the Linguistics major, you may do so by satisfying the UW English competency requirement. Additional coursework in the structure of English, such as LING 446, may also be helpful.
If you are seriously interested in linguistics, you should view the language requirement outlined above as a minimal course of language study. Regardless of whether or not you test out of the first year of a language, you are encouraged to take additional classes (beyond the first year) in one or both languages, provided that this does not affect your ability to graduate within UW's satisfactory progress guidelines (see Linguistics Advising for more information). Additional or more advanced language study is particularly recommended for students who are planning to attend graduate school in linguistics. Even for those not planning to go to graduate school, fluency in a second language is a valuable (and marketable) skill.
Introduction to Phonetics (LING 450)
Introduction to Phonology (LING 451)
Introductory course in linguistics (5 credits):
Introductory Courses
Lab & Discussion Meetings
Labs
Labs & Groups
Land Acknowledgement
Language courses (30 credits):
Language Development & Processing
Linguistic Bias Working Group
Linguistic Society at UW
Linguistics courses
Linguistics Fieldwork Lab
Linguistics is the scientific study of language. Students use scientific principles–collecting data, making observations, and developing and testing hypotheses–to research the structure, acquisition, and use of language. They apply this rigorous approach to all different levels of linguistic structure, with the opportunity to join faculty on research projects . Students expand their knowledge through the study of two languages from different language families, and they further draw on disciplines including psychology, anthropology, sociology, information and computer science, and more.
Linguistics majors, like other students in the College of Arts and Sciences, must satisfy the College foreign language proficiency requirement. One year of the language study required for the Linguistics major will also satisfy the College requirement, provided that you earn at least a 2.0 in the third quarter language course.
Linguistics Society at the UW
Linguistics students are expected to meet A&S GPA standards.
linguw@uw.edu
M.S. in Computational Linguistics
Main menu
Make a Gift
Maps
Menu
Minor in American Sign Language
Minor in Linguistics
MyUW
Neuroplasticity & Language Lab
News & Events
Newsletter
Non-UW Resources
NOTE: If you want to take a class outside the linguistics department that is related to linguistics but is not on the approved list, contact the Undergraduate Adviser for more information.
On-leave Status Procedure
One LING 4XX (Excludes LING 400, 419, 430, 480, 490, 499)
One year each (or the equivalent) of two languages, one of which must belong to a family of languages different from the student's own native language. For native English speakers, this means one year of study of a non-Indo-European language. Non-native speakers of English may count English as one of their languages. A student may test out of one language, but not both. For full details, see the Language Requirement page .
Overall GPA for courses taken for the major must be 2.0 or higher.
People
Ph.D. in Linguistics
Ph.D. Students
Phone: (206) 543-2046
Phonetics
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Postdocs
Press Kit
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Projects & Grants
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Research
Research Resources
Resources
Scholarships & Financial Aid
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-2425
Share
Share News with Us
Site Map
Skip to main content
Sociolinguistics
Staff
Stay Connected
Students in the Linguistics Department are required to undertake a one-year (three quarter) study of each of two languages. Classes used to satisfy this requirement will normally be drawn from one of the language sequences (most of which are fifteen credits) offered by various departments on campus. You must earn at least a 2.0 in the third-quarter course in order to satisfy the requirement. You can request a list of beginning language courses offered at the UW from the Linguistics Undergraduate Adviser.
Submit an Update
Summer Courses
Support for Grad Students
Support Linguistics
Support Us
Syntax & Semantics
Syntax I, II (LING 461, 462)
Tentative Course Schedules
Terms
The Elective Requirement
The following is an outline of the required courses for the Linguistics major:
The languages studied to fulfill this requirement must be different from your native language and at least one of them must belong to a different major language family (e.g. Indo-European, Uralic, Turkic, Sino-Tibetan, etc.). The languages studied may both belong to the same family.
There is no College or University rule to the effect that courses which are potentially applicable to two majors must count exclusively towards one major or the other.
Total credits: 50, in addition to required language courses
Treehouse Meetings (Computational Linguistics)
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Language Requirement
Undergraduate Language Requirement | Department of Linguistics | University of Washington
Undergraduate Research Opportunities (LURAP)
Undergraduate Work
University of Washington
User account menu
UW Resources
UW Working Papers in Linguistics
Visiting Scholars
Washington
While it is not a requirement for students to achieve a 2.0 in each major course (excluding the courses used for major admission), it should be noted that students who do not achieve a 2.0 or higher in core courses should anticipate difficulty with the successive courses in a given course sequence.
With advanced analytical skills and a deep understanding of language, an intrinsic human characteristic, graduates pursue careers in a variety of professional areas such as technology, policy, nonprofit, government, publishing and education.
You are here
You may test out of one, but not both, of the languages by taking one of the University-administered language placement tests and being assigned to the second-year program (or higher). Contact the Humanities Academic Services Center or the UW department that offers the language for more information about testing. The HAS Center language placement testing page offers information on language placement tests for various languages.
