Owner: uw-seattle-biology:pathway:data-science
Source: https://www.washington.edu/students/gencat/program/S/Biology-112.html
Title: 

Minor in Paleobiology
Graduate Programs
Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Biology)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Biology)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Biology: Advanced Data Science)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Biology: Biology And Astrobiology)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Biology: Data Science)
Undergraduate Programs
Biology
318 Hitchcock Hall
206-543-9120
bioladv@uw.edu
Program of Study: Major: Biology
Program Overview
Through coursework in the classroom, lab, and field as well as experience through research, internships, and study abroad our undergraduates gain the requisite knowledge and skills for careers in basic and applied research, education, health sciences, environmental sciences, science policy, government, business and the non-profit sector.
Students may earn a Biology BA with a General Biology Option. The Biology BS degree can be earned with one of 5 options: Ecology Evolution and Conservation Biology (EEC), General Biology, Molecular Cellular and Developmental Biology (MCD), Physiology, and Plant Biology. Minors in Paleo Biology and Marine Biology are also part of the curriculum offered to Undergraduates.
This program of study leads to the following credentials:
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Biology
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Biology: Ecology, Evolution, and Conservation
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Biology: General
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Biology: Molecular, Cellular, and Development
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Biology: Physiology
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Biology: Plant
Admission Requirements
Admission is capacity constrained. Applications, accepted quarterly, are due the second Friday of autumn, winter, spring, and summer quarters, by 11:59 p.m. Applications received after the quarterly deadline are considered for the subsequent quarter.
Minimum requirements for consideration
Matriculated student in good academic standing at UW Seattle.
Minimum 2.0 grade in each of BIOL 180, BIOL 200, and BIOL 220; or in BIOL 240
Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA for any supporting chemistry, physics, mathematics, and biology courses (or other courses that may apply to major requirements) completed at time of application.
Personal statement: May include description of interest in biology, career goals, undergraduate research interests, degree interest (BA or BS), and any other information applicant believes is useful in evaluating the application.
Meeting minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. Other factors include overall academic record and difficulty of other courses completed; time to degree set by UW Satisfactory Progress Policy, including frequency of incompletes or withdrawal grades and number of repeated courses; relevant work and life experience; and record of honors.
