Owner: uw-seattle-asian-languages-and-cultures
Source: https://asian.washington.edu/ba-asian-languages-cultures
Title: B.A. in Asian Languages & Cultures | Asian Languages & Literature | University of Washington

B.A. in Asian Languages & Cultures | Asian Languages & Literature | University of Washington
Skip to main content
Washington
University of Washington
College of Arts & Sciences
Quick links
Quick Links
Directories
Maps
MyUW
User account menu
Search
Search
Give now
Main menu
Asian Languages & Literature
Menu
People
Faculty
Staff
Teaching Assistants
Graduate Students
Current Grad Students
GSA Officers
Department Service Assignments
Alumni
Alumni News
Submit an Update
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
Majors & Minors
Incoming Freshmen & Current Students
Transfer Students
Scholarships
Careers
Resources & Opportunities
Graduate
Programs
Admissions
Policies and Procedures
M.A. Guidelines
Ph.D. Guidelines
Teaching Assistant Opportunities
Summer Study
Language Study
Languages Offered
Proficiency & Placement
Add Codes & Wait Lists
Teaching Endorsements
Courses
Upcoming Courses
Featured Courses
Study Abroad
Before You Go
Transferring Credits
Destinations
Research
Early Buddhist Manuscript Project
Bilingual and Biliteracy Research Lab
Welcome
People
Publications
Dissertations
Fields of Interest
News & Events
Recent News
Email List
Asia Notes Newsletter
Markus Memorial Lecture
Washin Kai
Calendar
Resources
Advising
Voicing Concerns
Health & Wellness
Financial Support
Careers
For Graduate Students
For Teaching Assistants
For Faculty and Staff
About
History
Equity, Justice, & Inclusion
Mission & Vision
Awards & Honors
Stay Connected
Support Us
Contact Us
Directories
Maps
MyUW
You are here
Home
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
Majors & Minors
B.A. in Asian Languages & Cultures
Students who earn a B.A. in Asian Languages and Cultures can tailor their major within the discipline of Asian Languages and Literature to their interests and goals. They have the flexibility to emphasize language courses and other, non-language courses as desired — ranging from ancient Sanskrit epic poetry to Buddhist literature to Korean pop culture. This makes the degree highly versatile and valuable to combine with the study of another Asian language or culture, courses needed for pre-professional studies, or other disciplines. Alumni, as multilingual professionals with in-demand skills, find an advantage entering business and nonprofit work, STEM fields, graduate programs, and more across the globe.
As part of the degree, students study two years of Bengali, Chinese, Hindi, Indonesian, Japanese, Korean, Sanskrit, Urdu, or Vietnamese. Because most introductory language courses are available only in the fall, students should sign up for introductory courses as early as possible in order to fulfill the major’s language requirement. If you have previous experience with one of the degree languages, see the department's information on proficiency exams and placement interviews .
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Degree Requirements
The Asian Languages and Cultures major requires a total of 60 credits. Complete the following with a minimum 2.0 cumulative grade point average in courses applied to major requirements. At least 30 credits must be earned at the 300- and/or 400-level. A minimum of 30 credits must be taken in residence through the University of Washington. At least one class must be taken in a language area other than the student's primary language area.
I. Core courses
1) 15 credits Primary Language: Complete second-year level or above in one Asian language (including Bengali, Chinese, Hindi, Indonesian, Japanese, Khmer, Korean, Sanskrit, Telugu, Urdu, and Vietnamese).
2) 5 credits Literature, Culture, Linguistics: Complete one course at the 300- or 400-level from the list of approved courses:
ASIAN 301: Songs of the Saints of India
ASIAN 363 Great Works of Asian Literature
ASIAN 401 Introduction to Asian Linguistics
ASIAN 404 Writing Systems
ASIAN 494 Ramayana in Comparative Perspective
ASIAN 498 Special Topics
CHIN 373 Chinese Poetry
CHIN 374 Chinese Prose
CHIN 380 Pre-Modern Chinese Narrative
CHIN 381 Literature in Modern China
CHIN 385 Popular Culture in Twentieth-Century China
JAPAN 321 Japanese Literature I
JAPAN 322 Japanese Literature II
JAPAN 325 Introduction to Japanese Film
JAPAN 344 Foreign Language Teaching in the Japanese Context
JAPAN 360 Topics in Japanese Culture
JAPAN 361 Topics in Japanese Film
JAPAN 380 Modernism, Avant-Garde, Contemporary, and Pop Art and Culture in Japan
KOREAN 360 Topics in Korean Literature and Culture
KOREAN 365 Korean Pop Culture
S ASIA 316 Postcolonial Literature of South Asia
S ASIA 498 Special Topics in Languages and Cultures of South Asia
II. Elective courses
1) 10 credits Literature, Culture, Linguistics: Complete two courses from the approved list of electives
ASIAN 204 Literature and Culture of China from Tradition to Modernity
ASIAN 205 Literature and Culture of Japan from Tradition to Modernity
ASIAN 207 Special Topics in Literature and Culture of Asia
ASIAN 210 Asian War Epics: Working through Many Mahabharatas
ASIAN 211 Languages and Cultures of China
ASIAN 223 Buddhist Literature
ASIAN 225 Indian Philosophical Literature
ASIAN 263 Great Works of Asian Literature
ASIAN 401 Introduction to Asian Linguistics
ASIAN 404 Writing Systems
ASIAN 411 Buddhist Literature
ASIAN 494 Ramayana in Comparative Perspective
ASIAN 498 Special Topics
CHIN 342 The Chinese Language
CHIN 373 Chinese Poetry
CHIN 380 Pre-Modern Chinese Narrative
CHIN 381 Literature in Modern China
CHIN 385 Popular Culture in Twentieth-Century China
CHIN 442 The Chinese Language
CHIN 443 Structure of Chinese
JAPAN 321 Japanese Literature I
JAPAN 322 Japanese Literature II
JAPAN 325 Introduction to Japanese Film
JAPAN 343 Japanese Language in Society
JAPAN 344 Foreign Language Teaching in the Japanese Context
JAPAN 360 Topics in Japanese Culture
JAPAN 361 Topics in Japanese Film
JAPAN 380 Modernism, Avant-Garde, Contemporary, and Pop Art and Culture in Japan
JAPAN 431, 432, 433 Readings in Modern Japanese Literature
JAPAN 441 The Acquisition of Japanese as a Second or Foreign Language
JAPAN 442 Japanese Syntax and Semantics
JAPAN 443 Topics in Japanese Sociolinguistics
KOREAN 360 Topics in Korean Literature and Culture
KOREAN 365 Korean Pop Culture
KOREAN 440 Introduction to Korean Linguistics
KOREAN 442 Special Topics in Korean Language and Culture
S ASIA 203 Love and War in Classical Indian Literature
S ASIA 206 Modern Literature of South Asia
S ASIA 254 Fairies, Genies, and Monsters: The Romance Genre in India
SNKRT 205 Sanskrit for Yoga and Meditation
2) 30 Credits Language, Literature, Culture, Linguistics: May include any combination of language and/or disciplinary AL&L courses, subject to meeting the major’s other requirements. 10 credits may be chosen from a unit outside AL&L. See an advisor for approved courses.
III. Provisions
1) At least 30 credits must be at 300-400 level
2) Minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA for courses applied to the major
3) Minimum 30 credits taken in residence through the UW
4) At least one class must be taken in a language area other than the student's primary language area
Share
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
Majors & Minors
Incoming Freshmen & Current Students
Transfer Students
Scholarships
Careers
Resources & Opportunities
Graduate
Summer Study
Language Study
Teaching Endorsements
Courses
Language Programs
Chinese
Hindi
Indonesian
Japanese
Khmer
Korean
Pali and the Prakrits
Sanskrit
Urdu
Vietnamese
Support Asian Languages & Literature
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Newsletter
More ways to connect
Department of Asian Languages & Literature
University of Washington
225 Gowen Hall
Box 353521
Seattle, WA 98195-3521
Phone: (206) 543-4996
asianll@uw.edu
Privacy
Terms
Site Map
Alumni Update
Contact Us
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
