Owner: uw-seattle-computer-science
Source: https://www.cs.washington.edu/academics/undergraduate/degree-requirements/
Title: Degree Planning & Requirements - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering

(*requires application and admission in summer)
(1) an ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
(2) an ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, , and economic factors
(3) an ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
(4) an ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts
(5) an ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
(6) an ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
(7) an ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies
(See our page on Graduate School .)
(UW course descriptions)
[Supplemental official source] Capstones
[Supplemental official source] Direct to Major (First-Year) Admissions
[Supplemental official source] Non-CSE Majors
[Supplemental official source] Non-Major Options
[Supplemental official source] Preparing for Industry: Suggested Computing Specializations
[Supplemental official source] prerequisites
* Data Science Options A growing number of departments and majors offer a multi-course specialization in data science (called a degree option), coordinated by the campus-wide eScience Education Working Group.
* Electrical and Computer Engineering The Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering offered by the Department of Electrical &#038; Computer Engineering (ECE) prepares students to design and build hardware and software for a variety of devices that use electricity, electromagnetics, photonics and quantum phenomena, such as robots, smartphones, lasers, electric power, vehicle control, medical devices and more. While all Electrical Engineering students take courses that cover the full breadth of the discipline, it is possible to do an emphasis in computer architecture and hardware design. ECE admits the majority of students from the Direct to College Engineering placement process.
* Human Centered Design &#038; Engineering Students in Human Centered Design &#038; Engineering (HCDE) practice research, design, and engineering by focusing on the needs of people in their various contexts. HCDE&#8217;s undergraduate and graduate degrees prepare students for leadership roles in user experience research and design, user interface design, human-computer interaction, computer-supported cooperative work, and related specializations. Beyond taking traditional classroom courses, students join directed research groups to work closely with faculty to enhance the knowledge base of this dynamic field.HCDE admits the majority of their students from the Direct to College Engineering placement process.
* Informatics The Information School, also known as the Information School, offers a Bachelor of Science in Informatics that prepares students to analyze, design, and develop information technologies for the good of people, organizations, and society. The degree is a balance between technical skills in building information systems, and social, ethical, design, and organizational perspectives on the role of technology in people&#8217;s lives.Most Informatics students seek careers as software developers, data scientists, web developers, user experience designers, project manager, cybersecurity analysts or product managers.
* Masters in Clinical Informatics and Patient Centered Technologies Offered through the Evening Degree program, learn to manage and evaluate the use of information technology and informatics applications to improve patient care processes and outcomes. Explore IT tools used in clinical and community settings, and study how to design and test systems that enhance care.
* Visual Communications Design and Interaction Design The School of Art&#8217;s Division of Design educates and trains designers to create and develop concepts that optimize the function, value, and appearance of communications, products and systems for the benefit of both industry and society. Within the Division of Design, there are three majors: Visual Communication Design, Industrial Design and Interaction Design.
&copy; 2026 Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering, University of Washington, Seattle WA
<input id="uw-search-bar" type="search"
1%
1326
1413
1448
1617
164
168
178
180 is designed for all undergraduates. No previous exposure to programming or statistics is expected. Many important decisions made by individuals and society at large are or should be data driven. Therefore, understanding the fundamentals of data science is essential for functioning as an informed citizen.
181
185 E Stevens Way NE
19
2 undergraduate majors only CSE courses maximum allowed per quarter (excludes support courses)
2%
20 min in-person or virtual 1:1 Peer Adviser Appointments
2023 Data
2023 Statistics
2024 Data
2024 Statistics
2025 Data
2094
21
2155
23
24%
244
259
26%
27%
289
30
30%
311 Foundations I
312 Foundations II
33
33%
331 Software Design & Implementation
332 Data Structures & Parallelism
333 Systems Programming
340 Interaction Programming
341 Programming Languages
344 Data Management
351 Hardware/Software Interface
36%
369 Digital Design
37%
371 Digital Circuits
3800 E Stevens Way NE
391 Tools
3916
42%
46
481 C: Robotics Capstone
4961
5 credits
5 Credits
5 credits (satisfies DIV requirement)
5 total undergraduate majors only CSE courses allowed (excluding support courses like CSE 391 and CSE 390Z). If you officially audit a course, that is counted as one of the 5.
5%
5059
54
564
569
58
599
62
69
76
83
90
92
A Capstone course is not simply an advanced course in a particular sub-area, nor is it an unstructured project course. A Capstone is designed to be a culmination of your learning, and a chance to develop and express many skills at once: For example, technical expertise and communication ability.
A cumulative GPA of at least 3.5 in all CSE courses.
A cumulative UW GPA of at least 3.3.
A few recommendations apply regardless of career interest. Most students benefit tremendously from doing internships. Internships complement coursework by allowing students to work intensively on a single project using modern technology. Likewise, capstones are valuable for most career paths, again, because employers value project experience in addition to understanding relevant concepts. Research experience is useful regardless of whether you intend to pursue a graduate degree because the ability to work independently is valuable in many career contexts. It is also an ideal way to get to know individual faculty &#8212; and have them know you so they can give you personalized advice.
A good essay conveys important information clearly, but is still concise. Expect that writing your personal statement will take time: start thinking about your essay and writing drafts well before the application deadline. Plan to have your essay reviewed by a mentor/teacher, parent or friend.
A minimum grade of 2.0 in CSE 123 or 143
A minimum grade of 2.0 in CSE 123 or 143; a minimum grade of 2.0 in MATH 126 or 135
A presentation for you to view that provides best practices and suggestions for how to write a strong personal statement for your application.
ABET Accreditation
Academic Programs
Academic Satisfactory Progress Petition
Academics
Academics Overview
Accelerated Computer Programming (CSE 143X)
Acceptance Rate
Acceptance Rate for 2023
Acceptance Rate for 2024
Acceptance Rate for 2025
Access Students (anyone 60 plus can ask to audit courses for a small fee)
Access to Allen School labs, facilities, and events
Accessibility
Accessible Accordion
Additional Questions & Support
Additional support through Multicultural Outreach &#038; Recruitment is available for all applicants, but may be particularly supportive for students who identify as American Indian/Alaska Native, Black/African American, Hispanic/Latino, Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, Southeast Asian (includes, but is not limited to Bhutanese, Burmese, Cambodian, Cham, Hmong, Laotian, Mien, and Vietnamese), first-generation, low-income, undocumented, or foster care youth. Contact the UW Multicultural Outreach &#038; Recruitment Team at reach@uw.edu
Adjunct Faculty
Administrative Support Team
Admission Decisions Released: Mid February
Admissions
Admissions Decisions Released: Early August
Advice & FAQs
Advice on applying to graduate school could fill a book, so it is best to talk specifically with a faculty member, preferably your research advisor, well before you apply. Applications are typically due in December, so it is best to start planning by the end of junior year. Some students work for a few years before applying to graduate school; this added experience can be quite helpful. We should note, however, that it is more common for students to apply to graduate school in their senior year. It is also possible to apply to graduate school as a senior, and then to defer for a year to work in industry.
Advising
Advisory Board
Affiliate Faculty
After completing CSE 160, students can already use programming for a variety of data analyses. For more data programming, including using common tools and libraries for a variety of types of data, continue on to CSE 163 Intermediate Data Programming. For students who are interested in taking additional programming classes or who intend to major in computer science or computer engineering, take CSE 122 (not CSE 121, which is for students without programming experience). Students who would like to learn how to build websites and web-based applications and have achieved a grade of at least 2.0 in CSE 160 can enroll in CSE 154 Web Programming.
After completing CSE 163, students will be well-positioned to pursue various data-science courses across campus, including in majors that have data-science options. It is also great preparation for CSE 414 and CSE / STAT 416 — courses where any one of CSE 123, CSE 143, or CSE 163 are sufficient.
After completing the Educational Outreach &#8220;NM Student Registration Approval Form,&#8221; turn it into the Computer Science and Engineering undergraduate advisers. You can do this via fax (206-543-2969), email (ugrad-adviser@cs.washington.edu), or drop it off at the CSE Advising Office in the Bill & Melinda Gates Center for Computer Science and Engineering, CSE2 170. We will get the form signed by both the department and the instructor. Please make sure to include your return fax number, email address or indicate that you will pick it up in person from our office.
After completing the minimum academic requirements , submit the Allen School departmental application by the appropriate deadline for the quarter you plan to apply.
After CSE 122, students can take any combination of CSE 123, CSE 154, and CSE 163, three complementary courses described below.
After CSE 123, students can take various upper-division computing courses. A good next step for students who enjoyed CSE 123 would be CSE 373 Data Structures, a more advanced course designed for non-majors. CSE 154 and CSE 163 complement CSE 123. Completion of CSE 123 satisfies the prerequisites for students to apply for admission to the Computer Science or Computer Engineering majors.
After CSE 143, students can take various upper-division computing courses. A good next step for students who enjoyed CSE 143 would be CSE 373 Data Structures and Algorithms, a more advanced course designed for non-majors. Other 100-level courses, such as CSE 154 and CSE 163, are also options (the exception is CSE 160, which cannot be taken after CSE 143). Completion of CSE 143 satisfies the prerequisites for students to apply for admission to the CS or CE major.
After speaking with their assigned adviser, students may complete this form to request approval to extend beyond 210 credits AND 12 quarters at the UW. If a student receives approval from the Allen School, they will also need to petition the University. The Allen School Advising Team will assist students with that process if their Allen School petition is approved. Departmental approval alone does not guarantee University approval for a graduation extension.
AI Education in the Allen School
All applications are reviewed by the Allen School Undergraduate Admission Committee, comprised of faculty and advisers. We use an evaluative , rather than a quantitative , process in our admission review. This means our decisions are based on more than simply which applicants have the highest grades. We do not tally up points; rather, we form an overall evaluation based on academic background and other factors, such as outside interests and activities, evidence of leadership and a sense of direction, and life experience. We do not expect all students to excel across the board, but achievement in relevant academic areas or evidence of overcoming hardships can strengthen an application.
All current UW applicants to the Allen School are required to complete the Allen School prerequisite courses (shown above) by the departmental application deadline for the quarter that they are applying. Prerequisite coursework is essential to ensure that applicants are prepared for upper division coursework upon entering our program so that they are able to graduate on time. Similarly, prerequisite coursework is necessary to ensure that our academic application review is fair to all applicants. We are able to consider requests for Prerequisite Substitutions from applicants who have completed sufficiently advanced coursework that demonstrates knowledge of the material from incomplete prerequisite course(s) on a case-by-case basis. Substitutions are rare, and we do not advise applicants to intentionally skip prerequisite coursework . Applicants must have a grade of 2.0 or better in their advanced course(s) to be considered for a Prerequisite Substitution. Successful completion of a more advanced course does not guarantee that an exception will be made. The Prerequisite Substitution Request Form is now open for applicants who will be applying for the spring or autumn 2026 current UW admissions cycles! To request a prerequisite substitution, please ensure that you have submitted the Prerequisite Substitution Request Form by 5:00 pm PT on the date the departmental application closes for the quarter you intend to apply (January 15 for spring applicants; July 1 for autumn applicants). You will not be able to submit your application without an approved substitution. If you are filling-out this form close to the departmental application deadline, please complete all other sections and questions in your application by the 5:00 pm PT application deadline. Someone from the Undergraduate Student Services Team (USST) will submit your application on your behalf if your request is approved.
All other students should review our Undergraduate Admissions page to determine which pathway is appropriate for them!
All students in the UW Honors Program must complete CSE honors in addition to Honors Program requirements to graduate &#8220;with College Honors.&#8221; Students who complete CSE honors (and are not in the UW Honors Program) graduate &#8220;with Distinction.&#8221;
All the UW
Allen School Alumni
Allen School Ambassadors
Allen School Application Deadline: July 1 at 5:00 pm PT
Allen School applications are reviewed by a committee of Allen School faculty and staff. We have a rubric that our faculty and staff are trained to follow to ensure that we are reviewing all applications consistently. Generally speaking, we evaluate two pieces of an application: the academic record (grades in prerequisite subject areas and overall grade trends) and the answers to the essay questions. While the rubric provides general guidelines for reviewers, we do have a method for flagging applications that don’t fit the rubric or have other information that needs to be captured during our discussion.
Allen School Blog ↗
Allen School Departmental Application Closes: January 15 at 5:00 pm PT
Allen School Departmental Application Opens: Early January
Allen School Departmental Application Opens: Mid-June
Allen School Departmental Exchanges
Allen School DTM admissions decisions are sent at the same time as UW first-year admission decisions, between March 1 &#8211; 15. If you are admitted to UW, your major will be listed on your acceptance materials. Students offered DTM admission will see Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or PIE &#8211; A (Pathways for Inclusive Excellence) listed as their major. Students who have been admitted to the UW without an offer of DTM admission into the Allen School will see &#8216;pre-major&#8217; or &#8216;pre-sciences&#8217; listed as their major.
Allen School Events Calendar
Allen School Faculty
Allen School Petitions Process &#8211; Guidelines for Students
Almost all students entering CS Ph.D. research programs will have some research experience before entering graduate school. Research experience can be gained in a number of ways. Independent study with a faculty member or graduate student is the most common. However, it is not a requirement that you complete an honors thesis in order to apply to graduate school. Other paths include capstone projects and work experience. For example, capstone projects often involve independent study and creative problem solving. Working at an early stage startup is another good way to practice research skills &#8212; basically any environment where the problem is poorly specified, the solution is unknown, and success in uncertain &#8212; in other words, the opposite of a typical undergraduate class! It can take years for research ideas to make their way into practice, if at all, so the ability to sustain motivation and progress in the absence of deadlines is essential.
Also see appropriate courses in the other UW departments noted above. Generally, the CSE courses will have a greater concentration on the technical aspects of HCI; the HCDE courses will focus on user experience and user testing; the Interaction Design program takes a design (art) perspective; while the Information School courses on the relationships among information, technology, and people. So, CSE440 will include some basics of doing a usability study, but for a more complete treatment, see for example HCDE417, Survey of Usability Research Techniques.
Alternative Courses to Consider
Am I a current UW applicant?
Am I a first-year, DTM applicant?
An approved copy of the thesis, with the faculty advisor’s signature on the cover page , must be submitted electronically through CSE’s Google Form for honors thesis submissions.
An increasing number of areas, not just traditional areas like physics, need high-performance computing that typically involves solving large numerical problems using large-scale parallel processing. People in this area benefit from expertise in applied mathematics as well as computer systems and software development. Despite increasing overlap with data mining and other areas, high-performance computing remains a distinct community.
An option for every student to consider is further study in CSE after graduation. This can be any combination of self-directed study, a masters degree program, and/or a Ph.D. program. It is not possible for us to fit everything worth learning about CSE in the scant number of credits available in the undergraduate degree program. Instead, our aim at the undergraduate level is to provide a foundation for students to be able to learn more, either on their own or as part of a graduate degree program. The field of CSE moves ahead quickly! It is crucial to stay current with new technologies to stay productive.
Anticipated FAFSA and WASFA opening date for the 2025 &#8211; 2026 academic year
Any student who is new to programming, and is interested in learning Java and general programming skills while working on entertaining assignments, would benefit from taking CSE 142.
Applicants Admitted to Computer Science or Computer Engineering
Applicants should follow the UW first-year application guidelines; you do not need to craft a computing-focused application!
Applicants who list Computer Science or Computer Engineering as their first-choice major on the UW first-year application will find out if they were directly admitted to the Allen School at the same time that they receive their UW admissions decision. Some Washington residents will receive an offer of direct admission into the Allen School through the Pathways for Inclusive Excellence (PIE) which includes the Allen Scholars Program and the STARS Program. Students are considered for these programs automatically by applying to the Allen School as a first-year student; there are no additional steps needed to be considered for PIE.
Application Review Criteria
Applications to the Allen School
Applications to UW Listing Computer Science or Computer Engineering as their First-Choice Major
Applied and Computational Mathematical Sciences . ACMS is an inter-departmental program that combines higher math, computer science, probability and statistics, modeling, and applied math. Mathematics is used in a fundamental way in most fields of science and engineering, and its use is rapidly expanding in the social sciences and humanities, as well. Recent increases in computing power have made mathematical modeling, computer simulation, and statistical analysis more important than ever. This degree offers several pathways, combining higher math courses with courses in computer science, probability and statistics, modeling, and/or applied math.
Applied Computational Mathematical Science: Note: starting in spring 2024, no double majors/degrees with Computer Science or Computer Engineering
Approved_Science_Courses_sp09
Approximately 100 students per quarter.
April 3 (5 pm)
Art in the Allen School
Articulate the importance of interface design and robustness of functionalities in robotics.
Artificial Intelligence
As mentioned previously, the UW Office of Admissions selects students for DTM admission into the Allen School based on criteria developed in partnership with the Allen School. Applicants are evaluated based on both academic achievement and personal characteristics. The academic portion of the review is based on high school grades, strength of schedule including in the senior year, and the rigor of coursework. The personal portion is based on an activities log and the essays in the first-year application. Applicants are strongly encouraged to explain any academic inconsistencies or gaps in their activities section through the writing portions. It is not necessary to take computer programming in high school or to have computing-related work experience. However, if you have access to computing opportunities, we encourage you to take them!
Ask for feedback on your personal statement. You might ask friends or family if it captures the most interesting and important details of who you are. Be open to making changes. Also, address what has changed since your first application. Spend time proofreading. Remember that it is more important for us to hear what you are doing presently and hope to accomplish in the future, rather than details about the first time you sat in front of a computer or played your first video game.
askuwadm@uw.edu
At UW, UI and HCI related courses are found in CSE as well as in the Information School , Human Centered Design and Engineering , and the Interaction Design program in the School of Art . There is also a cross-campus alliance of HCI faculty and students called dub &#8212; dub is more oriented toward faculty and grad students, but the dub website is an excellent place to check out the range of HCI activities at UW.
Autumn 2006-Spring 2007
Autumn 2007-Spring 2009
Autumn 2024
Autumn 2025
Autumn 2025 Admissions Timeline
Autumn Admissions
Award Papers
B.S./M.S. Graduate Courses (CSE M courses)
Back to top
Back To Top
Before applying for Allen School current UW student admissions, applicants must complete a minimum of 30 graded credits & the Allen School prerequisite courses.
Before You Register
Begin preparing for the UW application by reviewing the writing prompts for the UW first-year application
Bellevue College &#8211; Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
Below are specific suggestions of related major areas at the UW campuses in Seattle, Bothell, and Tacoma and at other Washington state colleges and universities.
Below we articulate a few known exceptions or common responses regarding requests to petition. Please review this list in its entirety before requesting an exception.
Bill & Melinda Gates Center
Bioinformatics/computational biology are aimed at knowledge discovery from such data sets.
Biomedical and health informatics works on using electronic biomedical data and information to advance research and improve health.
Box 352350
Box 352355
Brain-computer interfacing involves using signals from the brain to directly control external devices.
Building Directory
Business at University of Washington in Seattle and Business at UW Tacoma . The Business programs at the University of Washington in Seattle and UW Tacoma offer concentrations in Information Systems that address the use of information technologies in business and organizational environments. The programs focus on the use and design of information systems to meet an organization&#8217;s tactical and strategic needs. The curriculum includes programming and database management, information system analysis and design.
Can a non-matriculated (non-UW) student request enrollment in an Allen School 500-level course?
Can I register for CSE 519 or CSE 520?
Can I take a CSE 590 or 591 course?
Can students in the Allen School pursue a double-major, double-degree, or minor?
Capacity
Capstone Course List
Capstone Courses
Capstone Goals
Capstones
Capstones - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Capstones 2020-2021
Capstones 2021-2022
Capstones 2022-2023
Capstones 2023-2024
Capstones 2024-2025
Capstones 2025-2026
Capstones are senior-level project courses that allow you to solve a substantial problem with knowledge gained from many areas in computer science and engineering. Students work in teams to define a problem, develop a solution, produce and demonstrate an artifact that solves the problem, and present their work. Class time focuses on the project design and implementation, but it may also include lectures on the practical application of advanced topics. Interdisciplinary projects that require interaction with other departments are encouraged.
Career Resources
Cascadia College &#8211; Bachelors of Applied Science in Mobile Application Development
Catering Requests
Centers and Initiatives
Central Washington University
Co-requisite(s)
College of Engineering Honors Programs
Common Errors in English
Community Engagement
Complete list of all WA State Colleges and Universities
Complete the Educational Outreach enrollment process according to the Educational Outreach instructions .
Completing a minimum of 30 graded credits prior to applying
Completing at least 12 credits as a matriculated student at the Seattle campus of the University of Washington
Completing the Allen School prerequisite requirements
Computational neuroscience seeks to understand how the brain works through computational models and simulation.
Computer Engineering
Computer Engineering [PDF]
Computer Engineering degree program accredited by ABET
Computer Engineering Hardware Specialization (opens in new window)
Computer Engineering majors may also consider:
Computer Engineering Software Specialization (opens in new window)
Computer Engineering Spring 2011-Spring 2013 [PDF]
Computer Engineering Spring 2013 &#8211; Spring 2015 [PDF]
Computer Engineering Spring 2015 &#8211; Summer 2022 [PDF]
Computer graphics engineers develop software for creating images,videos, and even 3D worlds. Computer vision engineers analyze 2D, 3D and even 4D data with goals such as object recognition, video analysis, content-based image retrieval, 3D reconstruction and more. Game designers use graphics and HCI skills to create video games for people to play and enjoy. Animation production encompasses the whole process of creating animated films. Our animation capstone sequence is interdisciplinary, including students from other departments.
Computer Science
Computer Science [PDF]
Computer Science &#8211; Data Science Option [PDF]
Computer Science &#8211; Data Science Option Autumn 2016 &#8211; Summer 2022 [PDF]
Computer science and engineering increasingly shape the way we live and interact with the world around us. Even non-major fields have seen significant transformation. Computing has transformed nearly every industry, from law and government to education and health care, to travel and entertainment. It has also become an essential tool for researchers in every scientific and business discipline as we have entered an age of data-driven discovery.
Computer Science Principles (CSE 110)
Computer Science Spring 2011-Spring 2013 [PDF]
Computer Science Spring 2013 &#8211; Summer 2022 [PDF]
Computer Science students who wish to specialize in data-science-focused careers need to take courses that cover the core areas of data science, including algorithms, machine learning, data visualization, data management, and societal implications of data science. To achieve this goal, the Allen School has a new transcriptable option in Data Science to be added to the Computer Science major; students who complete all of the required coursework will have the option listed on their transcript upon graduation . This specialization will ensure that computer science students interested in data-science-related careers get the broad and deep education they need and that they obtain a strong foundation in this fast-growing field.
Computer Science Teaching
Computer security training can also be a valuable complement to anyone working in computer science, since &#8212; unfortunately &#8212; computer security issues arise all too frequently with deployed computer systems.
Computer-security issues span almost all of computer science. Computer-security practitioners work at the hardware level, with embedded systems, with software, and with improving the usability of computer security systems.
Computing + Biology
Computing Specializations
Computing Specializations - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Computing-Related Majors
Connect with the Allen School
Connection to other Allen School students who share your academic interests
Consider general requirements needed to graduate instead of just courses needed to apply. For example, finish your math and science courses, work towards a minor or another major, and complete your general education requirements.
Contact & Location Info
Contact Us
Contact UW Educational Outreach for non-degree enrollment .
Continuation Policy
Core & Elective Course Lists
Course
Course Annoucement
Course Evaluations
Course Lists
Courses
Courses in Computer Science & Engineering
Courses in Electrical Engineering
Courses in Human Centered Design & Engineering
Courses in Informatics
Courses in Mathematics
Courses in Medical Education & Biomedical Informatics
Courses in Statistics
Courses in the Allen School’s evening Professional Master’s Program (PMP) may be open to local professionals who wish to take classes without being enrolled in the master’s program. Taking PMP classes with non-matriculated status is an opportunity for software professionals to refresh or expand their knowledge or to prepare to apply to a graduate program later on.
Credit by exam (such as AP or IB), while transferrable, is not considered graded credit and cannot count toward this requirement.
CS Lab &#038; Technical Support
CSE 110 (which had number CSE 120 until 2022) introduces students to the fundamental principles of computer science and to basic programming concepts as a means to develop their computational thinking. Students explore the creative aspects of computing, including abstraction, problem-solving and managing complexity, and have the opportunity to consider the social, ethical and legal ramifications of various computing technologies. CSE 110 is related to the Advance Placement course in Computer Science Principles.
CSE 120 was renumbered CSE 110 just to emphasize that it is not part of the CSE 121, CSE 122, CSE 123 sequence. It did not change otherwise.
CSE 121 is a computer programming course for students who are new to programming. Students write programs to express algorithmic thinking and solve computational problems motivated by modern societal and scientific needs. You will learn procedural programming constructs (methods), control structures (loops, conditionals), and standard data types, including arrays – we do not expect any of these terms to be familiar to you yet. The course uses the Java programming language and teaching you how to write, test, and debug small and useful programs.
CSE 121 will be offered every quarter starting Fall 2022, and we expect it will serve thousands of students each year, several hundred each quarter. But remember two of the four weekly meetings will be in a recitation section of < 25 students.
CSE 121, 122, 123 has replaced CSE 142, 143 starting in academic year 2022-2023
CSE 122 is a programming course that uses the Java programming language to teach program design, style, and decomposition. Students use data structures such as lists, dictionaries, and sets (no experience with what these are expected) to solve computational problems motivated by modern societal and scientific needs. The course also uses basic object-oriented programming to separate an interface from an implementation.
CSE 122 is designed to be a “second programming course” for students who have taking a range of first programming courses. While it follows CSE 121, it is also the right starting point for students who took a programming course in high school that covered the CSE 121 programming features, such as AP Computer Science A. Prior experience does not need to be in Java. See our guided self-placement to help you choose among CSE 121, CSE 122, and CSE 123 if you haven’t already taken any of them. All three courses enthusiastically welcome students based on self-placement.
CSE 122 will be offered every quarter starting Fall 2022, and we expect it will serve thousands of students each year, several hundred each quarter. But remember two of the four weekly meetings will be in a recitation section of < 25 students.
CSE 122, CSE 123, or CSE 143
CSE 123 (or CSE 143)
CSE 123 emphasizes implementation and run-time analysis of data structures and algorithms using techniques including linked references, recursion, and object-oriented inheritance. Students will see how they can implement the data structures and abstractions they used in CSE 122 and how to use additional object-oriented features to create and use flexible software. They will use these techniques to solve computational problems motivated by modern societal and scientific needs.
CSE 123 or 143
CSE 123 will be first offered Winter 2023 and will then be offered every quarter. Like CSE 121 and CSE 122, we are committed to having enough capacity for everyone, regardless of major or interest, interested in the course.
CSE 131 offers students the opportunity to express their creativity while exploring the technical aspects of digital photography, including photographic composition, the science of optics and digital imaging, and the future of internet-enabled photography. Students practice using a variety of software tools and techniques for incorporating design elements such as line, color, texture and light, culminating in a final project organized around a theme. View examples of past student projects curated by course instructors here and here.
CSE 131 was offered once per year with room for approximately 200 students through 2021, but the instructor and course creator has retired and we do not have plans at this time to offer the course.
CSE 142 is an entry-level course that introduces students to essential computing concepts and teaches them how to write programs in Java—the most widely-used programming language in the world and an integral part of the UW CSE curriculum. CSE 142 is designed for students with no programming experience. Students attend a combination of large lectures and small (< 25 students) weekly recitation sections led by a community of TAs who foster a supportive and inclusive learning environment for beginning programmers. Students also have access to the Introductory Programming Lab for individualized help.
CSE 143 builds on the material in CSE 142 to develop more advanced programming skills, essential for writing more complex programs over larger and more interesting data. The format is similar to CSE 142, with two small weekly recitation sections.
CSE 143 is designed as a follow-on course to CSE 142. While students who already know the material covered in CSE 142 are allowed to take CSE 143 without formal approval, doing so is often not advised because the two courses are designed together. CSE 143 is a great choice for any student wanting to learn more after CSE 142, and CSE 123 or CSE 143 is generally required for entry to the CS or CE major. CSE 123 or CSE 143 also may be required for other majors on campus.
CSE 143X is an accelerated version of CSE 122 and CSE 123 that covers the material of both in a single quarter. This course doubles the pace of learning—not the assignment workload. CSE 143X used to be an accelerated version of CSE 142 and CSE 143 and it is currently taught in a way more reminiscent of our old introductory courses.
CSE 143X is designed for students who want to take CSE 122 and CSE 123 but feel they have sufficient experience and ability to learn the material in a condensed time frame. More information is here.
CSE 154 is offered a couple times each year, with room for roughly 250 students per offering, sometimes more.
CSE 154 provides an introduction to programming languages and tools for creating websites and web-based applications—skills that are increasingly useful in a variety of fields, as many people conduct much of their professional and personal lives online. Students learn how to author web page content using Hypertext Markup Language (HTML), control design and layout through the use of Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), create interactive web pages with JavaScript, and run code and maintain data on web servers.
CSE 160 is offered roughly twice per year to approximately 200 students.
CSE 160 is particularly beneficial to students who wish to perform data analysis. Students who are majoring in or intend to major in one of the natural, physical or social sciences, or another data-intensive discipline, are encouraged to consider CSE 160 as a first course.
CSE 160 offers a firm grounding in computer programming to any student, and no previous programming experience is assumed. Although it is aimed at those who are new to programming, students who have taken CSE 121, CSE 122, or CSE 142 (but not CSE 123 or CSE 143) can enroll in this course, but also see CSE 163, which is designed to follow CSE 122 or CSE 160.
CSE 160 teaches students to program for data analysis and visualization using Python, the standard programming language used in various scientific disciplines and in other data-driven fields. Students perform real data manipulation tasks and write programs that solve problems using actual data sets drawn from the sciences, engineering, business and the humanities. See this article on how student Krittika D’Silva applied her programming skills to addressing real-world problems in health care for an example of how CSE 160 is useful in a variety of fields.
CSE 163 is designed for broad interests in data science, data analysis, and programming. Students in any major may benefit from this course. It is complementary to CSE 123 (or CSE 143), and CSE 154; the material in CSE 123, CSE 154, and CSE 163 have minimal overlap. CSE 123 (or 143) remains a prerequisite for admission to the Computer Science and Computer Engineering majors.
CSE 163 provides students who have taken CSE 122, CSE 142, or CSE 160 with a programming course about how to write programs that (a) manipulate different types of data (images, text, tables, etc.), (b) leverage the growing ecosystem of tools and libraries for data programming, (c) are both efficient and elegant, and (d) are medium-scale in size (100 to 200 lines). The course complements CSE 123, which focuses more deeply on fundamental programming concepts and the internals of data structures. In contrast, CSE163 emphasizes the efficient use of those concepts for data programming. CSE 163 uses the Python programming language.
CSE 163 requires CSE122, CSE 123, CSE 142, CSE143, or CSE 160 (any one of these courses) as pre-requisites. CSE 121 is not enough prior experience — take CSE 122 or CSE 160 instead.
CSE 190: Security
CSE 190M: Web Development
CSE 300-Level Courses & their Prerequisites
CSE 311 Petitions
CSE 311: Foundations I: This is a discrete math/logic course with little coding. 311 is a prerequisite for 332 (Data Abstractions) and 312 (Foundations of Computing II). All new students should take 311 in their first quarter if possible.
CSE 311&312: Foundations of Computing I and II
CSE 331 Petitions
CSE 331: Software Design and Implementation : A coding-oriented class, required for CS and recommended for CE. This is a fine class to take your first, second or third quarter in the class. It&#8217;s valuable before internships.
CSE 331: Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 332: Data Structures & Parallelism
CSE 333: Embedded Systems, Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 333: Systems Programming
CSE 340: Interactive Systems : An exciting new elective that counts toward the CSE core courses .
CSE 341: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Systems Development, Software Engineering, Web Development
CSE 341: Programming Languages
CSE 341: Programming Languages : An elective that counts toward the CSE core courses . Most CSE majors take this! Not offered every quarter.
CSE 344: Databases, ICTD, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Web Development
CSE 344: Introduction to Data Management
CSE 351 Hardware/Software Interface
CSE 351: Hardware/Software Interface : A coding-oriented class. CE majors should take it in their first quarter, and many CS majors should consider it for their first quarter. CSE 351 focuses on how computer programs actually run on CPUs. You should take CSE 391 (a 1-cr class) concurrently.
CSE 351: The Hardware/Software Interface
CSE 369: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, Systems Development
CSE 373
CSE 373 : Data Structures and Algorithms (typically offered every quarter, including Summer)
CSE 373: Students will be required to take CSE 332 (and will not receive credit) even if they have CSE 373 prior to admission into the Allen School.
CSE 374
CSE 374 : Intermediate Programming Concepts and Tools (typically offered about twice per year)
CSE 374: will only be considered a Free Elective
CSE 391: System and Software Tools
CSE 391: System and Software Tools : A 1-credit seminar introducing important tools for future CSE courses. You should take this with or before CSE 351. Since this is only a 1-credit seminar, most people take this in addition to two &#8220;real&#8221; CSE courses.
CSE 401: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, ICTD, Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 401: Introduction to Compiler Construction
CSE 403: Databases, Embedded Systems, Graphics/Vision/Games/Animation, Security, Systems Development, Software Engineering, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction, Web Development
CSE 410
CSE 410: Computer Systems (typically offered alternating years)
CSE 410: Has not been offered in several years, currently only applies to Free Electives
CSE 412
CSE 412: Introduction to Data Visualization (typically offered once or twice per year)
CSE 413
CSE 413: Programming Languages &#038; Their Implementation (typically offered alternating years)
CSE 413: will be allowed to count as CSE Senior Elective, can not take 341 for credit if 413 completed.
CSE 414
CSE 414: considered equivalent to CSE 344 a major&#8217;s course and will be allowed as a 300 level core course (does not apply to the 4, 400 level core courses)
CSE 414: Introduction to Database Systems (typically offered every quarter)
CSE 415
CSE 415: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence (typically offered twice per year)
CSE 415: will be allowed to count as a CSE Elective; students cannot take 473 for credit if 415 is completed.
CSE 415: will be allowed to count as CSE Elective, students cannot take 473 for credit if 415 completed.
CSE 416
CSE 416: Students can take CSE 446 after getting into the major and will still receive credit. CSE 446 is a substantially more advanced and rigorous course that is a better fit for CSE majors. CSE 416 will apply to general electives by default. If a student does NOT take CSE 446, they can petition their adviser to allow CSE 416 as a CSE Elective as they near graduation. If a student opts to take 446 after 416, 416 will only be considered a Free Elective.
CSE 416/STAT 416: Introduction to Machine Learning (typically offered twice per year, once by Statistics and once by the Allen School)
CSE 417: Algorithms and Computational Complexity (typically offered twice per year)
CSE 417: ICTD
CSE 417: Students can take CSE 421 after getting into the major, courses are similar but not enough overlap to preclude credit. If a student does NOT take CSE 421, they can petition their adviser to allow CSE 417 as a CSE Elective. If a student opts to take 421, they will receive credit but 417 will only be considered a Free Elective.
CSE 418: ICTD
CSE 419: ICTD
CSE 421 Introduction to Algorithms (3)
CSE 421: Data Mining, Graphics/Vision/Games/Animation, Hardware Design/Engineering, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Mathematical Foundations, MS/PhD in CSE, Robotics &#038; Control Systems, Scientific Computing, Security, Software Engineering
CSE 421: Introduction to Algorithms
CSE 427 Computational Biology (3)
CSE 427: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 428 A: Computational Biology Capstone
CSE 428: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 428: Computational Biology Capstone
CSE 428A Computational Biology Capstone
CSE 431: Mathematical Foundations
CSE 440: Databases, Embedded Systems, ICTD, Security, Software Engineering, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
CSE 441: User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
CSE 442 Data Visualization (4)
CSE 442: Data Visualization
CSE 444 Database Systems Internals (4)
CSE 444: Databases, Data Mining, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Security, Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 446 Machine Learning (4)
CSE 446: Databases, Data Mining, Graphics/Vision/Games/Animation, Hardware Design/Engineering, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Robotics &#038; Control Systems, Security, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction, Web Development
CSE 446: Machine Learning
CSE 447 Natural Language Processing (4)
CSE 451: Databases, Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, MS/PhD in CSE, Scientific Computing, Security, Systems Development, Software EngineeringUser Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
CSE 451: Introduction to Operating Systems
CSE 455 Computer Vision (4)
CSE 455: Vision, Robotics &#038; Control Systems
CSE 456: Animation Production
CSE 456/458/459/460 (Animation Production)
CSE 457: Graphics, Games, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
CSE 458: Graphics, Animation Production
CSE 459: Animation Production
CSE 460: Animation Capstone
CSE 460: Animation Capstone &#8211; Barbara Mones (Note: requires application and admission in summer)
CSE 460: Animation Production
CSE 461: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, ICTD, Scientific Computing, Security, Systems Development, Software Engineering
CSE 461: Introduction to Computer Communication Networks
CSE 467: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering
CSE 471: Scientific Computing, Security, Systems Development
CSE 473: Data Mining, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Robotics &#038; Control Systems
CSE 473: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence
CSE 473: Vision
CSE 474: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, ICTD, Robotics &#038; Control Systems, Security, Systems Development
CSE 475 Embedded Systems Capstone
CSE 475: Embedded Systems Capstone
CSE 475: Hardware Systems
CSE 476: Embedded Systems, ICTD
CSE 477: Embedded Systems, Hardware Design/Engineering, ICTD
CSE 481 A OS Capstone
CSE 481 A: Neural Engineering Capstone
CSE 481 C: Capstone Software &#8211; Robotics
CSE 481 C: Neural Engineering Capstone &#8211; Rajesh Rao
CSE 481 C: Robotics Capstone
CSE 481 Capstone Software Design
CSE 481 Community Networking Capstone
CSE 481 D Games Capstone
CSE 481 D: Games Capstone
CSE 481 D: Games Capstone &#8211; Zoran Popovic
CSE 481 Data Science Capstone
CSE 481 H: HCI Capstone
CSE 481 H: HCI Capstone &#8211; Reinecke
CSE 481 M: ML Capstone
CSE 481 M: NLP Capstone
CSE 481 N: Capstone Software &#8211; NLP
CSE 481 N: Natural Language Processing Capstone &#8211; Noah Smith
CSE 481 N: NLP Capstone
CSE 481 Networks &#038; Mobile Systems Capstone
CSE 481 P: Social Computing Capstone
CSE 481 S: Security Capstone
CSE 481 S: Security Capstone &#8211; Kohno
CSE 481 Social Computing Capstone
CSE 481 V : Virtual and Augmented Reality &#8211; Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman
CSE 481 V Virtual and Augmented Reality Capstone
CSE 481 V: VR Capstone
CSE 481: Data Science Capstone
CSE 481: Embedded Systems, ICTD, Systems Development
CSE 481: Game Design for Global Challenges
CSE 481: Human-AI Interaction
CSE 481: Human-AI Interaction Capstone
CSE 481: Networks and Mobile AI Capstone
CSE 481C Capstone Software &#8211; Robotics
CSE 481D: Games
CSE 481DS: Data Science Capstone &#8211; Tim Althoff
CSE 481i: Sound and Media Capstone &#8211; Bruce Hemingway
CSE 481N NLP Capstone
CSE 481S Security Capstone
CSE 481V Virtual and Augmented Reality Capstone
CSE 482 A: Accessibility Capstone
CSE 482 K: Technology for Resource Constrained Environments &#8211; Richard Anderson
CSE 482: Accessibility Capstone &#8211; Anat Caspi
CSE 482B: Capstone Software Design to Empower Underserved Populations
CSE 482K Technology for Resource Constrained Environments
CSE 484 Computer Security (4)
CSE 484: Databases, Embedded Systems, Security, Systems Development, Software Engineering, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction, Web Development
CSE 486: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 487: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 488: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
CSE 490D: Embedded Systems, ICTD
CSE 498/496: MS/PhD in CSE
CSE 500 Level Course Petitions
CSE 500-level courses, including 590-level seminars, require permission of the instructor. Email is usually sufficient. Department colloquia are open to the public.
CSE 590: MS/PhD in CSE
CSE 5XX: MS/PhD in CSE
CSE courses serve as an entry point for students across the campus to explore the world of computing. We offer courses designed to enable all students, regardless of major, to develop computational thinking and hands-on programming skills. Some students discover after taking one of our classes that CSE is the right path for them. Others apply their new knowledge and skills to a field outside of CSE. No matter what path you choose, taking a CSE course—or courses!—can enrich your educational experience and enhance your career prospects.
CSE Doctoral Course Enrollment Petition
CSE Honors
CSE is an ever-growing field, and a CSE degree provides an amazing breadth of opportunities. To meet the needs and career goals of our unique students, we have designed our degree requirements to be quite flexible, particularly at the 400-level. We want our students to talk to advisers and professors to determine what courses they will find most useful and enjoyable.
CSE M classes are typically jointly offered with CSE undergraduate courses. During the first week of class, a student enrolled in the undergraduate version of the class may switch to the CSE M version if they have instructor permission and space is available. If a CSE M course is not jointly offered with an undergraduate course, students can email vgrad-advisor@cs.washington.edu . There is often limited or no space for non-majors in CSE M courses. CSE undergraduates not (yet) admitted to B.S./M.S. can similarly switch into CSE M courses the first week of class if space is available and they have instructor permission (or the instructor is OK with any student switching). CSE undergraduates that have been admitted to B.S./M.S. may register at any time for CSE M classes while still an undergraduate, but need to email vgrad-advisor@cs.washington.edu to get registered.
CSE Major Courses & Suggested Alternatives
CSE Majors
CSE Majors-Only Course
CSE Pre-majors
CSE Satisfactory Progress Policy to understand expectations
CSE Teaching Schedule for long-term planning
CSE_Senior_Electives_sp09
CSE/EE 475 A: Embedded Systems Capstone &#8211; ECE Faculty
CSE/EE 475: Embedded Systems (Taught by CSE) &#8211; Bruce Hemingway
CSE/EE 475: Embedded Systems Capstone &#8211; ECE Faculty
Current site
Current UW Admissions
Current UW Admissions - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Current UW Admissions Statistics
Current UW Application Process
Current UW Student Admissions
Curriculum
Data
Data Mining
Data Mining, ICTD, User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
Data Programming (CSE 160)
Data Science and Society Seminar:
Data Science Option
Data Science Option Requirements
Databases
Date
Dates for information sessions are posted on our information sessions webpage .
December 1
December 11
December 12
Decisions
Declaring CSE Honors
Degree Overview
Degree Planning & Requirements
Degree Planning & Requirements - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Degree Requirements
Degree Requirements Petition
Description coming soon!
Description: Accessibility is quickly emerging as a leading consideration for product design and engineering. Disability is part of the human condition – almost everyone will be temporarily or permanently impaired at some point in life, and those who survive to old age will experience increasing difficulties. Disability is complex and heterogeneous, and the technological interventions to accommodate different abilities are wide ranging and vary with context. Many familiar technologies like voice recognition, text-to-speech, and gaze detection were initially engineered to assist people with disabilities gain more access and increase participation in daily life. Students will work in interdisciplinary project teams to apply design and engineering skills to create technology solutions that increase independence and improve quality of life for people of all abilities.
Description: Accessibility is quickly emerging as a leading consideration for product design and engineering. Disability is part of the human condition &ndash; almost everyone will be temporarily or permanently impaired at some point in life, and those who survive to old age will experience increasing difficulties. Disability is complex and heterogeneous, and the technological interventions to accommodate different abilities are wide ranging and vary with context. Many familiar technologies like voice recognition, text-to-speech, and gaze detection were initially engineered to assist people with disabilities gain more access and increase participation in daily life. Students will work in interdisciplinary project teams that include community members with expertise on project needs. Groups will follow participatory design practices and apply design and engineering skills to create technology solutions that increase independence and improve quality of life for people of all abilities. Teams will complete one end-to-end product iteration cycle: ideation, design, specification refinement, prototype and usability testing
Description: Algorithms that deal with text or speech, either as inputs as outputs, are increasingly part of our everyday lives. Systems that translate accurately between languages, read many documents and summarize or answer questions about them, and even hold conversations with us, are on the horizon. Successfully designing and implementing such systems requires understanding and integration of ideas from linguistics, statistics, and computation, and testing them rigorously requires a strong grasp of experimental methodology. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a natural language processing problem and with crafting and evaluating a solution.
Description: Apply the knowledge gained in previous animation courses to produce a short animated film. Topics include scene planning, digital cinematography, creature and hard surface modeling, animatics and basics of character animation, and rendering techniques.
Description: Capstone design experience. Prototype a substantial project mixing hardware, software, and communications. Focuses on embedded processors, programmable logic devices, and emerging platforms for the development of digital systems. Provides a comprehensive experience in specification, design, and management of contemporary embedded systems.
Description: coming soon&#8230;
Description: Coming soon&#8230;
Description: Create cool and interesting projects where you get to use various mobile systems and networking technologies. The capstone will include background material on Android programming, networking as well as how various sensors like GPS, IMU, acoustic work to enable tracking, localization, augmented reality and ranging applications.
Description: Data analysis is a central activity for scientific research and is increasingly a critical part of decision making in government and business. However, producing reliable data analysis outcomes is challenging since the decisions made throughout the analysis process can dramatically affect the eventual outcome. The Data Science Capstone focuses on the complete end-to-end process of data analysis performed with code: the iterative, and often exploratory, steps that analysts go through to turn data into results. Our focus is not limited to statistical modeling or machine learning, but rather the complete process, including transformation, exploration, modeling, and evaluation choices. Students will work in groups of three or four on a single project that will tie together and apply previous experiences from CSE 312, 332, 446, 442, 344, and other classes. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate machine learning, visualization and database methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be little lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end data analysis process from transformation and exploration of data to modeling and evaluation. Your group will brainstorm on a project during the first week, before collaboratively exploring the data and implementing a complete data analysis workflow. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a data science question, and with crafting and evaluating a data science process to answer that question. CSE students should have completed CSE 332 and CSE 312, and at least one of CSE 446, CSE 442, or CSE 344. There are no other requirements for participating in this capstone class.
Description: Data analysis is a central activity for scientific research and is increasingly a critical part of decision making in government and business. However, producing reliable data analysis outcomes is challenging since the decisions made throughout the analysis process can dramatically affect the eventual outcome. This Data Science Capstone focuses on the complete end-to-end process of data analysis performed with code: the iterative, and often exploratory, steps that analysts go through to turn data into results. Our focus is not limited to statistical modeling or machine learning, but rather the complete process, including transformation, exploration, modeling, and evaluation choices.
Description: Design, build and present a prototype device or software tool that solves an important problem in neural engineering. Examples include interfaces based on combining AI with brain-, muscle-, and/or eye-tracking signals to control computers or robotic devices, virtual reality approaches to improving neural function, and machine learning-based software tools for analyzing large-scale neural data.
Description: Designs and implements a software tool or software analysis for an important problem in computational molecular biology.
Description: Each team analyzes a wicked problem and develops a game that stimulates player engagement with the problem and approaches to solving it. Tools and techniques include Python, large language models, multiplayer supports, problem-solving theory from AI, formulation frameworks, simulation models, iterative design, Scrum-based agile development, and playtesting.
Description: In this capstone course, students will work in groups to apply software engineering and system design skills they have learned over their four years in computer science towards building a novel social computing system to address a social challenge. We will follow a human-centered design process for groups to ideate, prototype, test, implement, and showcase their novel system. Along the way, students will gain a broad understanding of the current major pressing issues and state of the art of knowledge in social computing, while taking a critical lens toward social computing systems they use every day. Along with the capstone project, we will have readings, group discussions, reflections, and guest speakers working in social computing.
Description: Public Interest Technology Capstone Experience. Develop tools and technologies in partnership with communities around Seattle and Tacoma that assist in small organizations running Internet access networks. Focus on core network development as well as HCI and user-facing systems. Provides a comprehensive experience designing, building, and deploying technology in the real world with the goal of doing social good.
Description: Student teams design and implement a software project involving multiple areas of the CSE curriculum. Course emphasizes the development process, rather than the product.
Description: Student teams will be tasked with creating a computer security themed product. The work will progress from product conception to requirements to design to implementation to evaluation. Along the way, students will incorporate key computer security tools and practices, including threat modeling, penetration testing, and bug fixing. Examples include password managers, censorship resistance systems, and mobile payment systems.
Description: Students will work in groups of three or four on a single project that parallels the experience of delivering an interactive prototype within a company or with a customer. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate HCI methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be little lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end product cycle from design to deployment.
Description: Students will work in small groups (~3 people) to complete an independent machine learning research project in a domain of their choice (e.g., natural language processing; computer vision; medical data; machine learning theory; etc.). The focus will be on honing students&#8217; research skills: formulating problems, picking up relevant technical knowledge, building research codebases, performing experiments and analysis, and writing up their results.
Description: Students will work on a group project that makes use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) to address global needs with an emphasis on developing countries. While ICTs are having an enormous impact on livelihoods worldwide, deployment environments vary dramatically based on available infrastructure and technologies accessible to people. Areas of projects could include: health information systems, data collection technologies, applications for basic mobile phones, user interface design for low literate populations, behavior change communication, voice based social networks, community cellular networks, open source projects for global good, low-cost smartphones, satellite image analysis or mobile financial services targeting domains including health, education, agriculture, finance, and livelihood.
Description: Students will work on group project that use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) to address global needs with an emphasis on developing countries. While ICTs are having an enormous impact on livelihoods worldwide, deployment environments vary dramatically based on available infrastructure and technologies accessible to people. Areas of projects could include: health information systems, data collection technologies, applications for basic mobile phones, user interface design for low literate populations, behavior change communication, voice based social networks, community cellular networks, open source projects for global good, low-cost smartphones, satellite image analysis or mobile financial services targeting domains including health, education, agriculture, finance, and livelihood.
Description: Students work in substantial teams to design, implement, and release a software project involving multiple areas of the CSE curriculum. Emphasis is placed on the development process itself, rather than on the product. Teams are expected to develop a work plan, and to track and document their progress against it.
Description: TBA
Description: The &#8220;Networks and Mobile AI Capstone&#8221; course is designed to empower students to innovate at the intersection of mobile computing, wearables, on-device artificial intelligence, and networking. This course provides an opportunity to design and implement AI applications optimized for mobile devices, addressing challenges such as computational efficiency, real-time processing, and energy consumption. We will explore interesting applications like speech translation, mobile LLMs and multi-modal LLMs in the context of mobile and wearable devices and systems.
Description: The main goal of this course is to open up new career options in robotics for computer science and engineering students. To that end, the course will teach you the basics of robotics and give you implementation experience. You will learn to use libraries and tools within the most popular robot programming framework ROS (Robot Operating System). We will touch on robot motion, navigation, perception, planning, and interaction through mini-lectures, labs, and assignments, eventually integrating these components to create autonomous or semi-autonomous robotic functionalities. The project will give you team-work experience with large scale software integration and it will get you thinking about opportunities for using robots to address societal challenges.
Description: The main goal of this course is to open up new career options in robotics for computer science and engineering students. To that end, the course will teach you the basics of robotics and give you implementation experience. You will learn to use libraries and tools within the most popular robot programming framework ROS (Robot Operating System). We will touch on robot motion, navigation, perception, planning, and interaction through mini-lectures, labs, and assignments, eventually integrating these components to create autonomous or semi-autonomous robotic functionalities. The project will give you team-work experience with large scale software integration and it will get you thinking about opportunities for using robots to address societal challenges. At the end of the quarter students are expected to be able to:
Description: This capstone explores the design and development of interactive technologies that integrate language models in providing AI-based interactive capabilities. Students will explore creating human-AI interactions that address real-world needs and tasks, applying principles from human-centered design in support of those interactions. Course activities will emphasize student-led discussions of current challenges and approaches, a group project exploring vertical prototyping of human-AI interactions, and examination of and reflection on designing with and for this emerging space.
Description: This capstone will build projects utilizing computer audio and video techniques for human interfacing, sound and video recording and playback, encoding and decoding, synchronization, sound synthesis, recognition, and analysis/resynthesis. Projects may contain any types of media. Students will work in teams to design, implement, and release a software project utilizing some of the techniques such as those in the links below.
Description: This class will provide students with an intensive 10-week experience in successfully completing a challenging, well-scoped research project.
Description: This course contributes to the following ABET outcomes:
Description: This course is intended to give students a thorough understanding of design and implementation issues for modern operating systems. We will cover key design issues in implementing an operating system, such as memory management, inter-core synchronization, scheduling, protection, inter-process communication, device drivers, and file systems, paying particular attention to system designs that differ from the traditional monolithic arrangements of Unix/Linux and Windows.
Description: This Data Science Capstone focuses on the complete end-to-end process of data analysis performed with code: the iterative, and often exploratory, steps that analysts go through to turn data into results. Our focus is not limited to statistical modeling or machine learning, but rather the complete process, including transformation, exploration, modeling, and evaluation choices. Students will work in groups of four on a single project that will tie together and apply previous experiences from CSE 312, 332, 446, 442, 344, and other classes. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate machine learning, visualization and database methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be limited lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end data analysis process from transformation and exploration of data to modeling and evaluation. Your group will brainstorm on a project during the first week, before collaboratively exploring the data and implementing a complete data analysis workflow. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a data science question, and with crafting and evaluating a data science process to answer that question.
Description: This Data Science Capstone focuses on the complete end-to-end process of data analysis performed with code: the iterative, and often exploratory, steps that analysts go through to turn data into results. Our focus is not limited to statistical modeling or machine learning, but rather the complete process, including transformation, exploration, modeling, and evaluation choices. Students will work in groups of four on a single project that will tie together and apply previous experiences from CSE 312, 332, 446, 442, 344, and other classes. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate machine learning, visualization and database methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be limited lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end data analysis process from transformation and exploration of data to modeling and evaluation. Your group will brainstorm on a project during the first week, before collaboratively exploring the data and implementing a complete data analysis workflow. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a data science question, and with crafting and evaluating a data science process to answer that question. question.
Description: Virtual and Augmented reality are promising technologies that are certain to make an impact on the future of business and entertainment. In this capstone, students will work in small project teams to build applications and prototype systems using state of the art Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) technology. Seattle is a nexus of VR tech, with Oculus Research, Valve, Microsoft (hololens), Google (cardboard, jump), and teams in the area. We will be developing on the latest VR/AR headsets and platforms, and will bring in leading VR experts for lectures and to supervise student projects. Students will experience the end-to-end product cycle from design to deployment, and learn about VR/AR technology and applications. The capstone culminates in a highly anticipated demo day where the students demonstrate their creations to other students, faculty and industry luminaries. ( See Video )
Description: Virtual and Augmented reality are promising technologies that are certain to make an impact on the future of business and entertainment. In this capstone, students will work in small project teams to build applications and prototype systems using state of the art Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) technology. Seattle is a nexus of VR tech, with Oculus Research, Valve, Microsoft (hololens), Google (cardboard, jump), and teams in the area. We will be developing on the latest VR/AR headsets and platforms, and will bring in leading VR experts for lectures and to supervise student projects. Students will experience the end-to-end product cycle from design to deployment, and learn about VR/AR technology and applications. The capstone culminates in a highly anticipated demo day where the students demonstrate their creations to other students, faculty and industry luminaries. (See Video)
Despite substantial growth in capacity, there continue to be far more applicants who meet all of the admissions criteria than the Allen School can accommodate. Applicants are encouraged to choose a second choice major on campus if there is another field (besides Computer Science or Computer Engineering) that they would consider studying; there is no penalty for selecting a second choice major. Allen School applicants cannot be considered for direct admission twice, so we recommend choosing a major outside of the Allen School as a second choice. There are many other majors at the UW that involve computing! As a reminder, students who list another major as their first choice and an Allen School major as their second choice will not be considered for DTM admission into the Allen School.
Direct to Major (First-Year) Admissions
Direct to Major (First-Year) Admissions - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Direct to Major Application
Distinguished Lecture Series
Distribution Begins
Do Allen School undergraduate majors need to fill in the enrollment petition if they wish to take a graduate-level course?
Do you expect students to have had programming experience in high school?
Domestic Non-Residents
Double Majors
DTM Admissions Statistics
DTM offers many benefits to selected students including (but not limited to):
Due to limited resources and an overwhelming number of requests, we are no longer able to accommodate large numbers of non-major students in our Allen School Undergraduate Majors Only courses during the regular academic year (Autumn, Winter and Spring). Over the last several years we have developed additional non-major courses that we currently offer. These are a better fit for non-Allen School students.
Due to relatively low demand, we have not been offering this course every year. We hope to relaunch it at some point.
DXARTS (Minor). The Digital Arts and Experimental Media program creates opportunities for artists to pursue lines of inquiry within the scientific, technical and creative realms while discovering and documenting new areas of knowledge and practice in this emerging field. This inherently interdisciplinary curriculum requires all students to diversify their artistic practice across four major content areas (sound, video, 3D, and sensing and control systems) as well as compliment their study with relevant upper-division coursework selected from related fields (computer science, music, drama, dance, art, engineering, architecture, cinema studies, etc.). Students are positioned to pursue original creative and technical research.
E E 461
Each of CSE 121, CSE 122, and CSE 123 has two large class meetings and two small (< 25 students) weekly recitations sections each week, with the recitations sections led by a community of undergraduate TAs who foster a supportive and inclusive learning environment for beginning programmers.
Eastern Washington University
ECE Course Petitions:
Education
EE 205: Embedded Systems
EE 205: Introduction to Signal Conditioning : CE majors can take 215 instead if the timing of 205 does not fit your schedule, but 205 is strongly preferred.
EE 215: Embedded Systems, Robotics &#038; Control Systems
EE 417: Embedded Systems
EE 440: Graphics/Vision/Games/Animation
EE 442: Embedded Systems
EE 476: Hardware Design/Engineering
EE 477: Hardware Design/Engineering
EE 484: Embedded Systems
EE205 / EE215 Signal Conditioning
Efforts must culminate in an interesting, working artifact.
either E E 205 or E E 215; either E E 271 or CSE 369
Email grad-advising@cs.washington.edu with:
Embedded Systems
Embedded systems are designed to fit into the fabric of the environment around us. An embedded system is distinguished from a general-purpose system by some very important properties: (1) an embedded system usually interfaces computing with the physical world (sensing and actuation); (2) it is not intended to be reprogrammed by the user although some parameters may be specified; and (3) it has user interfaces that are optimized for the task so as to be as seamless as possible. A good example is an anti-lock breaking system in a car where sensors measure the performance of the brakes and a micro-controller computes the pressure to actuate on the brake disks; the manufacturer may occasionally update the software but not the car owner; and the user interface is the simple brake pedal with which drivers are already familiar. The distinctions between embedded and general-purpose systems are not always so precise. A modern mobile phone is certainly programmable (the user can download new apps as with a PC) but there are components such as the GSM module (performing the communication between the phone and cellular infrastructure) whose software elements are rarely changed or upgraded. Similarly, the GPS module of the phone performs the specific function of determining a position on Earth from signals sent by orbiting satellites. An embedded system designer is likely to focus on these task-specific modules while coordinating their use in the more general-purpose phone. Other excellent examples of embedded systems are modern video game controllers that use a user&#8217;s physical gestures (sensed through embedded accelerometers or cameras) to control game elements. Embedded systems designers and engineers work in a variety of industries and on varied applications ranging from medical instrumentation and aerospace to mobile devices and smart environments.
Emeritus Faculty
Employment Opportunities
Engineering: While double majors are not allowed between Computer Engineering and any other Engineering degree, occasionally, on rare exceptions, a student may pursue a Computer Science degree along with another Engineering degree. Please note however, there are no double degrees with any Allen School major and the Electrical and Computer Engineering degree.
English
Enrollment in CSE 142 has increased dramatically, and the course has been particularly successful at engaging more women in computer science and engineering. CSE 190A, a seminar linked to a section of CSE 142, enables students to explore the role of women in the field through group discussions, hands-on activities, and guest speakers. Watch our video exploring the growing popularity of CSE 142 and its follow-on course, CSE 143, and how these courses contribute to greater diversity in computing.
Enter search text
Enumerate challenging problems in robotics;
EPFL Exchange
ETH Exchange
Evening Professional Master's Courses (CSE P courses)
Events Calendar
Evergreen State College
Every student, no matter what his/her chosen field, should be familiar with the concepts and technologies that underpin computing and its role in our society. Anyone who seeks to acquire a basic understanding of computer science and to gain insights beyond what they know as mere consumers of technology would benefit from taking this course.
Exchange Students
Explain basics of robot navigation, perception, planning, interaction;
Faculty Honors &#038; Awards
Faculty Leadership
Faculty/Staff Directories
Fall 2020
Fall 2021
Fall 2022
Fall 2023
FAQ
February 12 (2 pm)
February 13
February 28
Fill out the CSE Doctoral Course Enrollment Petition .
Fill out the NM Student Registration Form . Save this PDF for later.
First-year admissions decisions, including Allen School DTM decisions, are released
Five credits of English composition
Follow the Allen School
For each specialization, we list the most important elective courses. This does not imply that other courses are not equally important, but these are the key courses that cover topics that define the specialization. We also list other recommended courses for each specialty.
For example, any engineering, science, or technical major integrates computing since computers are powerful tools for computation, design, modeling, and data manipulation. Any major plus some computer coursework can satisfy a computing interest. For example, the Allen School offers a series of non-major courses.
For graduate applications, various factors are considered. In rough priority order: recommendations from faculty who worked directly with you on a research project; recommendations from faculty who taught you in a class or two, or for whom you have TA&#8217;ed; verbal/math GRE score; GPA; personal statement. In particular, the GPA is not particularly correlated with success in graduate school, except in one respect: most graduate courses run at two to three times the speed of a typical undergraduate course, so graduate schools do consider whether you would be able to keep up. Some schools are now conducting phone interviews of some candidates; for this it helps to attend research seminars (590) in your area of research, and to practice by talking to graduate students about their work and your work. Finally, to complete a Ph.D. literally requires you to write a book, and so there is a huge advantage to becoming an accomplished writer before entering graduate school.
For more details view the Guide to Direct to Major Admissions (PDF)
For non-majors who still want to take majors-only courses, Summer quarter will have some unrestricted access for non-major registration during Period 2 registration. We typically offer over 15 undergraduate courses each summer with about half of them being courses that are majors only during the academic year.
For some students who are denied admission to the Allen School on their first application, applying a second time may make sense. Reapplying does not automatically improve your chance of admission, and we do not consider previous applications when reviewing a students application for the current admissions round. You must identify what specifically kept you from being competitive the first time, and resolve these issues. Note, however, that the primary reason most students are denied is that space is limited; the Allen School denies many very strong applicants and sometimes there is no specific issue.
For students who decide to reapply, here are some things to consider:
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
Friends &#038; Supporters
from the Spring 2023 & Autumn 2023 Application Cycles
from the Spring 2024 & Autumn 2024 Application Cycles
from the Spring 2025 & Autumn 2025 Application Cycles
Full CSE Degree Requirements , including links to curriculum and electives lists
Future Students
General Advice
Generally speaking, most students should plan to take the 400 level courses in the Allen School. There are exceptions however for students who have advanced understanding to occasionally take CSE 500 level courses. Typically a PhD Breadth 500 level course where a student has not previously taken the undergraduate version of the course can be allowed to count as a Core course. Note that this is only for PhD breadth courses. If a course is listed on our breadth requirements for PhD students they are often (not always) allowed as a Core Course substitution. Sometimes there are restrictions however on whether or not a student has taken the 400 level version of the course. An example would be that you are allowed to take 421 and 521 because they differ enough to both count. However there are other courses where you are NOT allowed to receive credit for both, i.e. 446 and 546 for example. It’s best to check with an adviser about your long term plans before requesting an exception. We hope to have an explicit list in the future, but for now, you should check with an adviser.
Generally speaking, students who plan to major in computer science or computer engineering should complete CSE 142 and CSE 143 (or CSE 143X), as they are prerequisites for admission. Students may also need to complete CSE 142 and/or CSE 143 to satisfy requirements for majors from other departments.
Geographic Information Systems The Geography department at the UW offers a Geography degree with a concentration in Geographic Information Systems (GIS). A GIS degree gives its majors an understanding of the development, sources, and uses of geographic information. The GIS curriculum focuses on geographic system analysis, map sources and map error, urban transportation GIs analysis, and natural resources and environmental analysis.
Get Directions
GitLab
Give an oral presentation, arranged by you and your faculty advisor, on the honors project. You should also arrange for at least five additional people (e.g., other students, family, etc.) to attend your presentation.
Given the breadth of the agenda above, no one curriculum will suit every student, so be flexible, talk to advisers and faculty, and consider the following courses:
Gonzaga University
Good math skills and the desire to build complex systems that interact with the world are important preconditions for success in robotics.
grad-advising at cs.washington.edu
Graduate (Ph.D.) Advising:
Graduate Education
Graduate School
Graduate students if they are already involved in an Allen School collaboration &#8211; students must list the person they are collaborating with in the form.
Grand Challenges
Graphics, Vision, Games, and Animation
Green River College &#8211; Bachelor of Applied Science in Software Development
Guaranteed to study Computer Science or Computer Engineering at the UW&#8217;s Seattle campus (no competitive application process later)
Handbooks/Degree Requirements 1977-2001
Hardware Design/Engineering
Hardware designers implement computational devices using a variety of technologies at a wide range of levels. For example, computer architects design and implement processors using high-level components such as memories, registers, and arithmetic components, while embedded systems designers assemble application-specific systems using microcontrollers, memories, wired and wireless communication components and a large variety of sensor devices. Other hardware engineers design hardware components and systems at the gate or transistor level using FPGA (Field-Programmable Gate Array) or VLSI chip technology. Today&#8217;s FPGAs allow designers to construct highly optimized hardware systems for computationally intensive applications like image processing (e.g. face and object recognition and transcoding), encryption/decryption and data compression using cheap and reusable hardware. The area of Computer-Aided Design involves designing algorithms for compiling high-level hardware descriptions into low-level circuit implementations.
HCDE 417: User Interface &#038; Human-Computer Interaction
Helpful advice, information, and answers to our most frequently asked questions.
Helpful Information
Here are some points to keep in mind about the Allen School admission process:
Here are some resources to consult to ensure you submit a statement of the highest quality.
High school students who are dual-enrolled at a Washington state community college as a Running Start Student can also schedule a virtual appointment via Zoom with someone from our recruitment team. We are happy to provide advice but cannot make an academic plan for you.
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 154, 403, 440, 451, 461, 484
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 190M, 403, 444
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 331, 333, 451, 461, 484, distributed systems, software capstone (CSE 481)
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 331, 403, software capstone
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 333, 369, EE 371, 451, 461, 474, capstone: 477
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 344, 440, capstone: 490D (or 476, 477, 481 depending on interests)
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 344, 444, 451, 484, 446
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 369, CSE/EE 371 467, 474, 477
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 431
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 461, 471
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 427/428 (Computational Biology, 486/487/488 (Synthetic Biology)
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 440, 441; also any capstone courses in related areas, such as computing for the developing world or computer support for people with disabilities
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 446, 455, 473 &#038; STAT 391
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 446, 473, 421 &#038; STAT 391
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 457/458 (Graphics), CSE 455/473 (Vision), CSE 457/481D (Games),
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 492T, CSE 590E, EDUC 251, EDC&#038;I 351
Highly Recommended Courses: CSE 498/496 (research), 400-level courses in area of interest
Home
How a course applies to the CS or CE Degree
How are applications to the Allen School evaluated?
How do I know if I am admitted to the Allen School through the DTM pathway?
How is the personal statement evaluated, and what should I discuss in my personal statement?
How to Apply
However, if you are absolutely certain that you want to major in Computer Science or Computer Engineering and do not receive an offer of DTM admission, you should strongly consider attending another university.
However, many students find some structure and guidance useful. Degree requirements are naturally important, but what you must take to graduate differs from what you ought to take to achieve your goals. It may be unclear which courses are particularly relevant for some of the more common job titles or career paths you may be considering.
However, Running Start students may also be interested in pursuing courses that would help meet degree requirements to accelerate their time to degree. The degree requirements for both the Computer Science and Computer Engineering majors are available on our website . Note that there are no prerequisite courses needed to apply to the Allen School as a first-year student.
Human-Centered Computing
I am a Running Start, how do I know if my class will transfer?
i f Computer Science major (choose one): PHYS 121, BIOL 180, or CHEM 142 or a course from the approved list
If a student completes EE 215 that can use that to replace EE 205, however EE 205 is strongly encouraged for our CE majors
If a student completes EE 271, they can use that to replace CSE 369
if Computer Engineering major: PHYS 121
If you are a non-matriculated student (i.e., someone not currently enrolled as a student at UW) interested in taking any of our non-major courses, please follow the instructions below. If you are interested in taking any of our majors-only courses, please follow these petition guidelines. If granted a spot in a majors-only course, our advising team will work with you to complete the required paperwork outlined below.
If you are a senior, file for graduation to get Graduating Senior Priority during your registration. After filing, you will get two quarters of priority registration which will allow you to register before anyone else (including other seniors who have not yet filed for graduation).
If you are interested in taking an upper-division non-major course that is full, please note that we will no longer be maintaining overload lists for these courses. Sign up for NotifyUW to receive alerts when space becomes available in the class. We will try to adjust class sizes to meet demand as best we can. Graduate students are generally only allowed to register during Period II registration unless they are in a data science major that requires these courses.
If you are NOT a current UW student and want to take courses as a non-degree student, please review the information concerning non-matriculated enrollment and contact UW Educational Outreach for non-degree enrollment .
If you do not meet the honors thesis requirements, you will not graduate with honors even if you have successfully completed nine credits of research. In many cases, the faculty will not issue grades for honors research until the entire project is finished and approved.
If you have MATH 300 completed, you can take CSE 311 and CSE 332 at the same time. Your Allen School adviser can help you register since you won’t have CSE 311 pre-req credit yet.
If you have trouble registering due to prerequisites, contact an adviser for assistance.
If you have trouble taking tests or organizing your time, consider talking to a counselor at the Counseling Center about test-anxiety, test-taking tips, or time management.
If you plan to apply to CSE, your first goal is to complete the prerequisites while working on general requirements and exploring related majors . Review our full degree requirements and our admissions application guidelines .
If you think you will not be able to graduate due to scheduling issues, contact an adviser.
If you would like to discuss course planning or have other admission questions, please book an appointment to meet with a Peer Adviser , or attend Quick Questions to chat with an Allen School Academic Adviser (held Monday-Friday), see the Advising Calendar ). Additionally, all prospective students are highly encouraged to attend a current UW student information session , held on the second Tuesday of each month via Zoom. Please reach out to peer-adviser@cs.washington.edu if you have any questions.
If you would like to schedule a 1:1 review appointment (in-person or virtual) All in-person appointments will be held in the Bill & Melinda Gates Center building (CSE2), in the undergraduate student services suite on the first floor. Please note our new appointment policy ( found on this page ) which was made in an attempt to equitably support as many prospective and current Allen School students as we can. Students may only schedule a maximum of three peer advising appointments per quarter and no more than one appointment in any 14 day period (2 week period).
If you would like to speak to an adviser, you can check out the Undergraduate Academic Affairs Advising in Mary Gates Hall.
If your grades in a key area (math, science, English, or CSE) are below the range that is typically competitive for the Allen School, you might improve your application by taking more-advanced classes in the same area. If you have not maintained consistently strong grades across multiple quarters, evaluate the options you have to create stability and work hard at maintaining strong grades. If you tend to pay attention only to the courses that interest you at the expense of everything else, focus on taking a more balanced approach to your coursework.
Image Credits
Important Resources
In a fast moving technical domain like computer science and engineering, continuing education (either formally or informally through self-directed learning) is a necessity &#8212; the courses of studies listed below are intended to help you get started in a topic. They are by no means a complete set of everything you need to know to have a successful career in any of these areas.
In addition to our 100-level courses, we offer a selection of 300- and 400-level courses in which students can explore in some depth specific areas of computing in a format suited to non-majors. Topics include algorithms, intermediate programming, artificial intelligence and database systems. See our overview of UW CSE’s non-major courses above to learn about options for additional study.
In an effort to support prospective current UW students who are applying to the Allen School, we are excited to offer the following resources:
In evaluating transcripts, we look not only at your grades , but at how many courses you have taken each quarter; circumstances (such as employment or activities) that may limit the number and types of courses taken, and the difficulty of each quarter as a whole (insofar as we have access to that information). For example, do you take balanced yet challenging course loads? Are you pursuing honors courses? Negative elements might include a pattern of repeating classes, multiple dropped, withdrawn, or S/NS courses, or selecting schedules with overlapping content.
In general students should plan to take the required degree requirements. In some cases, a student may petition to take a different course in place of a stated degree requirement. This usually requires either a conversation with your assigned adviser in the Allen School, or sometimes it requires further approval with an official petition that would then be reviewed by the Director of Student Services and the Faculty Undergraduate Program Chair.
In many nations around the world, computing systems are seeing a radically different development and evolution than what has happened in heavily industrialized nations. For example, the dominant computing device is the mobile phone rather than the laptop or desktop. Phones are more mobile, more easily powered where the power infrastructure is less developed, and have communication capability for both voice and data (SMS and GPRS). Arguably, the phone is the truly personal computer that everyone around the world carries with them. A new engineering discipline is emerging that solves problems using appropriate technology for the many environments around the world that have many fewer resources than our own. It often explores a very different range of designs and solutions than what might be appropriate within our familiar environment. The field of ICTD focuses on deploying technology to help spur economic and social development as well as improving health and education services. Application areas cover improving public health (both clinic and community outreach efforts), educational applications (traditional schools as well as adult education), helping illiterate populations bridge the digital divide, and facilitating financial instruments that operate with the smaller amounts of poorer economies. ICTD systems must carefully account for economic, cultural, and language aspects of the communities and users where they are deployed. ICTD is one of the more inter-disciplinary branches of CSE.
In Memoriam
In order to ensure the honors designation will be marked on your diploma, thesis submission is due no later than the last day of finals during the quarter in which you plan to graduate. Earlier submissions are encouraged.
In-person or virtual 1:1 personal statement review appointments (RSVP required, space is limited)
In-person personal statement group workshops offered in January (RSVP required, space is limited)
In-Person Personal Statement Workshops
Incoming Exchange Students
Industry Affiliates
INFO 343: Web Development
INFO 344: Web Development
INFO 360: ICTD
INFO 380: ICTD
Informatics Minor If you love your major but want to know more about how to apply data, information and technology to solve problems in your chosen field, then the Informatics minor might be for you. The Informatics minor includes required components in data, design, policy and ethics, and code.
Information Sessions
Informations & Communications Technologies for Development (ICTD)
Interaction with the Physical World
Interactions with Biology, Bioengineering, Medicine & Genomics
Interdisciplinary Offerings
Interested in starting early? The UW writing prompts are available online at any time!
Intermediate Data Programming (CSE 163)
Internal Resources
Internal Web
International Students
Introduction to Computer Programming I (CSE 121)
Introduction to Computer Programming II (CSE 122)
Introduction to Computer Programming III (CSE 123)
Introduction to Data Science (STAT/INFO/CSE 180)
Introductory Courses
Is there a minimum GPA to apply for DTM admission?
It is important to note that the admissions rubric is reviewed and updated each year. In the past, we would post the rubric at the conclusion of all academic cycles, but we have decided to try a different path for the 2026 admissions cycles. Although we post the rubric publicly, please note that we do not conduct any pre-evaluations of a student’s application. As in the past, the best way to prepare for an upcoming application is to (1) address all the essay questions thoughtfully, carefully, and substantively and (2) do your best academically in all of your courses. We also highly recommend that all prospective students attend an information session to learn more about the Allen School and our evaluation process. These information sessions are free and open to the public. While we have somewhat changed how we calculate application scores the general structure remains the same. Academically, we consider the full transcript with particular attention given to more recent coursework and courses in prerequisite subject areas. Outside of academics, students can show strength in their Writing and Work History/Activities sections.
It should be a well-written, clearly presented document, typically 15-25 pages long.
It should reflect work done independently under the supervision of a faculty member.
January 2
January 9 (5 pm)
Jump To A Section
June 1
June 1 (2 pm)
June 11
June 19
June 6
K-12 Outreach
K-12 Outreach Programs
Key Dates & Deadlines
KTH Exchange
Lake Washington Institute of Technology &#8211; Bachelor of Applied Science in Software Development
Latest News
Learn about Minimum Academic Requirements
Links for planning your CSE curriculum:
List of Writing Centers at UW
Machine learning and data mining are increasingly important activities and there is extremely high demand for people skilled in these areas. For example, data mining is used to tune Web search engine ranking functions, to evaluate the merit of credit card applications, to determine when a retail store should reorder products, and even to optimize the energy efficiency of advanced CPU architectures. A strong background in statistics (e.g., STAT391) and algorithm design (421) will be very useful when designing data-mining systems. 446 is the core course in the area and 473 will broaden your knowledge of AI methods. Frequently, the data to be mined is stored in a large relational DBMS; deep knowledge of database design and implementation (444) will let you create a much more effective system.
Main Administrative Offices
Main Tel: (206) 543-1695
Maintain the minimum UW and departmental GPA required for honors (listed above).
Majors with an asterisk (*) are capacity-constrained: Students must complete all minimum requirements to apply and must then compete with the entire applicant pool for a limited number of spaces. These majors often have application forms and application deadlines; some of them require standardized tests, recommendations, and/or interviews.
Majors: The CS and CE programs each require 180 total credits to graduate. Students will need to fulfill a General Education component, a Mathematics and Science component, and a Computer (Science or Engineering) component that consists of required classes and senior electives. Please refer to our guidelines below.
Make A Gift ♥
Make an Appointment
Make sure to use the “help” tool on the right-hand side of the application if you have any questions about filling-out the application. If you are still having trouble, please reach out to the Allen School Undergraduate Advising Team at ugrad-adviser@cs.washington.edu.
Many applicants who select Computer Science or Computer Engineering on their UW application will be admitted to the UW but not offered DTM admission to the Allen School. These students will see a listed major of &#8216;pre-major&#8217; or &#8216;pre-sciences&#8217;. We encourage students to be open-minded. Many students enter the UW thinking they want to pursue one major, but develop a passion for another major during their first year. The UW offers more than 180 majors, including a number of technology-related majors other than Computer Science and Computer Engineering, which are popular choices for many students and can be a great fit for your future plans. You can find related majors by visiting the UW Majors page and searching for “Computing” as an area of interest!
Many companies need talented web developers. Some are large companies that do web software as their bread and butter, like Google, Amazon, and Yahoo. Others are traditional software houses that have particular web products and services, like Microsoft or Cisco. Still others are regular non-software businesses that need to hire web hackers to create dynamic web sites for the company.
Many employers care deeply about &#8220;soft skills&#8221; &#8212; written and oral communication, teamwork, and time management. Communicating your ideas and organizing yourself is necessary for your technical skills to be useful. Gain experience in these areas.
Many graduate schools are extremely competitive. For example, UW CSE receives over 1000 applications for new Ph.D. students per year. On the other hand, several UW CSE undergrads enter Ph.D. programs each year, and probably an equal number beyond that would be able to be admitted to a competitive grad school but choose to go directly to industry. The CSE faculty are very knowledgeable as to which schools have strong programs in your area of interest, so make sure to consult them before applying. This type of information is very difficult to unearth on your own.
Many of the other specializations (such as systems developer, web developer, etc.) overlap significantly with what software engineers do: indeed, these others are in some sense specialized software engineers. This suggests that, along with the basics, you should take courses about the kind of software you may be interested in engineering.
Many students enter the UW with an interest in computers. There are a variety of ways you can gain an understanding of how computers work, and several majors other than Computer Science and Computer Engineering can prepare you for employment in a field where computers are used.
March 1-15
March 11
March 13
March 27
masters at cs.washington.edu
Masters degree programs largely fall into two flavors: primarily coursework, or a mixture of coursework and independent research. Graduate coursework generally focuses on bringing students to the state of the art in a particular sub-area of CSE, while independent research targets the creation of new knowledge in the construction of leading edge computer products and services. Clearly, to do research in an area, a student needs to understand the current state of knowledge in that area. At UW, the Professional Master&#8217;s Program (PMP) is primarily coursework; students in the UW CSE fifth year masters program can pursue either path; and students admitted in the Ph.D. program focus on research while completing several courses early in their graduate career.
Math
MATH 124, 125, & 126
Math 126 or Math 136; Phys 122 or 142
MATH 134, 135 and 136: honors math track students have two options:
MATH 336: For students who complete MATH 336, they may petition to request to take CSE 431 in place of taking CSE 311. This waiver is contingent on the strength of the grade in MATH 336.
Math 381 , CSE 417
MATH 407/408/409: Scientific Computing
MATH 464/465/466: Scientific Computing
Mathematical Foundations
May 1
Maybe. All courses listed under CSE 590 and CSE 591 are seminars or group meetings offered by Allen School research groups and are designed for current doctoral students engaged in academic research. Typically offerings are not confirmed until the first week of the quarter. Students interested in any of these seminars should check the current time schedule and contact the listed instructor for permission. Email permission can then be forwarded to grad-advising@cs.washington.edu at which time an add code can be issued. Detailed information about each 590 and 591, if/when we have it, is posted on the Graduate Special Topics page.
MEBI 498: Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics
Media Inquiries: media at cs.washington.edu
Meet a Current Student
Meet with Current Student
Menu
Message from the Director
Minimum Academic Requirements
More flexibility in planning your Allen School coursework over four years of college
More information about a CS education career can be found on this page.
More specifically in terms of our curriculum, most students should take more than the minimum number of 300-level courses. The minimum is allowed for students who want to move quickly into a narrower specialty. In particular, while 331 is not required for CompE, we believe most students should take both courses. Software development skills and knowledge of hardware are extremely valuable. Because this advice applies generally, 331 is not explicitly listed under most of the specializations.
More time to do internships and participate in research
Most students planning for a second application will take additional challenging courses in math, science, English, or computer science. Keep in mind that although it may seem appealing to take a non-major Allen School course , these classes do not count toward Allen School major requirements. Applicants should speak with an Allen School adviser before taking a non-major Allen School class.
Most students should take CSE 122 or CSE 123 instead of CSE 143. We will offer CSE 143 during the 2022-2023 academic year for students who already completed CSE 142 or a corresponding course at another institution.
MyCSE
MyCSE Resources
MyCSE Undergraduate Resources
name="s"
National College Decision Day, deadline to confirm enrollment at most colleges & universities.
Natural Science
Neural engineering utilizes techniques from engineering to both understand the brain and build systems that interface with the brain such as neural prosthetics and implants. It encompasses areas such as computational neuroscience and brain-computer interfacing.
New CSE Majors
News &#038; Events
No Equivalent
No, there is no minimum GPA to apply for DTM admission. The Office of Admissions uses a holistic review process that considers both academic preparation &#038; performance and personal achievements &#038; characteristics to make DTM decisions. On the academic side, there are multiple factors considered including strength of schedule, course rigor, and grades. Applicants with academic inconsistencies will have the opportunity to explain any circumstances that may have impacted their academic performance in their essays. Also note that hundreds of students with high grades are not offered DTM admission ; no GPA guarantees admission.
No, we do not expect DTM applicants to have any programming experience. We anticipate that students will enter with a variety of experience levels and our introductory curriculum is set up to meet students at their current level. Students will have the opportunity to self-select into the appropriate introductory course that meets their experience with computing. Our first course in the series, CSE 121, is designed for entering students with no experience at all!
Non-CSE Majors
Non-Major Courses
Non-Major Options
Non-Major Options - Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Non-Major Registration
Non-Majors: If you are interested in taking a CSE course visit our Non-major Options page for more information.
Non-Matriculated Student
Non-Matriculated Students
Non-Matriculated Students: If you are interested in taking CSE coursework, please see the Non-Matriculated information here .
None
North Seattle College &#8211; Applied Bachelor’s in Application Development
NOTE : The Allen School keeps complete archives of prior year degree requirements if needed by alumni or potential employers. See below:
Note: This course has a DIV designation and fulfills the diversity requirement
Note: we do not have the resources to consider requests from undergraduates based on interest in a topic area or desire to apply to the Allen School.
Notes: This course has a DIV designation and fulfills the diversity requirement
November 15
November 6
October 30 (2 pm)
Offered DTM Admission into Computer Science or Computer Engineering
OLD: Computer Programming I (CSE 142)
OLD: Computer Programming II (CSE 143)
OLD: Science and Art of Digital Photography (CSE 131)
Once the thesis is completed, one copy should be submitted to the faculty supervisor and one to the CSE undergraduate advisers. In order to ensure the honors designation will be marked on your diploma, thesis submission is due no later than the last day of finals during the quarter in which you plan to graduate .
One additional course chosen from the following Data Science electives:
One of the most exciting aspects of computer science today is its promise to cross over from the &#8220;core&#8221; to make significant contributions in disparate application domains, and biology/medicine are among the most promising of these connections. They are undergoing a sea change, with new technologies such as genome sequencing providing floods of data that will elucidate fundamental biomedical truths, if we can provide the appropriate computational tools to expose them. This encompasses a very broad landscape, including:
One of the most important things to know about the CSE registration process is how to get advice and help from Allen School advisers. CSE advisers can help you plan your courses, connect with resources, and provide general advice.
Only graduate students engaged in research with a CSE faculty member (not an adjunct or affiliate) are eligible to enroll in CSE 519 or 520. The talks featured in CSE 519 and 520 are open to the public, so students do not need to be registered in order to attend. Complete viewing information on the CSE Colloquia and Distinguished Lecturer Series can be found on the event webpage.
Operate a robot platform using ROS tools;
Other – explain why a majors-only course is necessary for completion of your UW program (must have supporting documentation from your current major academic adviser)
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: CSE 401 (techniques in compiling can be useful for embedded systems and configurable computing systems), 421 (Computer-Aided Design requires a strong background in algorithms), 446 (machine-learning techniques are widely used in embedded systems) &#038; EE 476 (Digital Integrated Circuit Desing: Transistor-level design of digital systems, 477 (VLSI II: Advanced Digital IC Design)
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: CSE 401, 403, 484, EE 417 (Modern
Other courses you might consider depending on areas of interest: HCDE 417 (Usability Research Techniques), 418 (User Experience Design), 419 (Survey of Concepts in Human-Computer Interaction) &#038; INFO 360 (User-Centered Design), 380 (Information Systems Analysis and Management)
Other pages of interest: Undergraduate Admissions and Allen School Degree Requirements .
Other Programs in Washington State
Other Recommended Courses: 500-level courses in area of interest, CSE department colloquia, 590-level seminars in areas of interest, CSE 421/451, TA experience, writing experience
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 341, 344, 444, 421, 446, 473 &#038; STAT 391 &#038; MEBI 498 (an undergraduate topics course on Biomedical Informatics)
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 341, 344, 444, 484 &#038; INFO 343, 344
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 341, 401, 403, 444, 474, 471
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 341/401, 333/451/461, 333/444, 440, 484, 421
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 421, 446 &#038; EE 440
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 440
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 446, 457, 484
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 403, 461, 474
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 444, 446, 474, 490&#8217;s
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 421, 474 &#038; EE 215
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 440, 467 &#038; EE 205 or EE 215
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 444
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 451, 461
Other Recommended Courses: CSE 451, STAT 391, and numerical analysis courses in the MATH or AMATH departments. See, in particular, the numerical analysis sequence MATH 464/465/466 or the optimization sequence MATH 407/408/409
Other Recommended Courses: EE 406, EDUC 401
Other Recommended Courses: STAT 391
Our Courses
Our current UW student admissions pathway welcomes applicants who are already studying at the University of Washington&#8217;s Seattle campus and have completed the minimum academic requirements.
Our evaluations for all parts of the application are holistic, we consider the whole person, which comes out in the essay, versus just considering grades. The departmental application essay prompt is available online at any time (look at the Computer Science & Engineering dropdown). Please note, we do not provide specific feedback on an applicant&#8217;s personal statement.
Our goal is to have as complete a picture as we can of your activities, experiences, and academic performance .
Our most common advice for CSE majors is:
Our recruitment team is happy to help. You can reach out to us via email at outreach@cs.washington.edu!
Outgoing Ph.D.s &#038; Postdocs
outreach at cs.washington.edu
outreach@cs.washington.edu
Pacific Lutheran University
Paradigm Online Writing Assistant
Participants will work in small groups (approximately 3 people in each group) to hone their technical skills to quickly absorb and adapt new technical knowledge, gain experience in complex programming, perform thorough experiments and analysis, and learn how to find a path when faced with negative results.
Participation in Allen School events and activities from your first day on campus
Past Years’ Admissions Statistics
Past Years&#8217; Admissions Statistics
Paul G. Allen Center
Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science & Engineering
Paul G. Allen School of Computer Science &#038; Engineering: There are no double majors/double degrees between Computer Science and Computer Engineering
Peer Advising
People
Personal Statement Review Resources
Petition Closes
Petition Opens
Ph.D. Dissertation Talks
Ph.D. in CSE
Ph.D. programs in CSE are primarily designed for those interested in research careers. Although most Ph.D. programs involve coursework, the main focus is on pushing beyond the state of what is already known. Creativity, insight, teamwork, self-motivation, leadership, presentation and writing skills are all highly valuable to researchers, and in fact, the technical leadership of most companies excel at many of these same qualities. There is often a blurry line between academic research and new product development. Startups in particular value students who are able to solve technical problems where the solutions are not well-understood in advance. There is no textbook that says how to design an iPhone. It is not an accident that the CEO of Google has a Ph.D. in computer science; half of all Google hires from UW have advanced degrees. Thus, research experience is valuable, even if you do not pursue an academic career.
Ph.D. Student Recognition
Ph.D./Doctoral Courses (CSE 500 level)
Plan a balanced schedule. Prepare yourself for a good academic experience and strong grades by planning a manageable schedule with a good mix of courses. We recommend two math/science/CSE courses per quarter, plus one non-math/science/CSE course, such as a VLPA or I&#038;S requirement. If you hope to take on heavier schedules, such as three CSE courses or four total courses, build up to this heavy workload after a strong quarter in lighter schedule. Remember that it’s easier to ramp up your workload over time than to recover from a quarter in which you’ve taken on too much.
Plan ahead. Use MyPlan (available on MyUW) to draft a 2-, 3-, or 4-year plan, then send it to a CSE adviser for feedback. We can note any missing requirements, mixed-up prereqs, or other scheduling issues, and we can discuss how to fit in extra-curricular activities — TAing, research, study abroad, etc. Planning ahead will help you form a better picture of your goals an opportunities, and avoid issues.
Plan for the amount of work in a course, not the number of credits. Most CSE majors take 12-15 credits per quarter, occasionally more. The number of credits does not always reflect the workload: A 4-credit CSE course or a 3-credit Math course will often require more work than many 5-credit courses.
Please contact an adviser if you have any questions about taking CSE coursework as a non-matriculated student.
Please do not contact faculty directly unless instructed by an adviser for special permissions. If you are interested in taking a 300-level or 400-level course that is full, please note that we will no longer be maintaining overload lists for these courses. Here are some actions you can take if desired classes are full:
Please note that if you are enrolled in another major at UW (or you are a pre-major) but plan on applying to the CSE program in the future, you should visit our admissions page to learn more about the application requirements and prerequisite requirements.
Please note: CSE 434, CSE 440, and the animation series are each exceptions to this process and have separate petition processes, which are linked directly in the time schedule for each quarter.
Please refer to the Allen School Continuation Policy for information about minimum course load, dropping required courses, and other academic policies and procedures.
Policy & Procedures
Popular Links
PostBac Students
Postdoctoral Program
Postdoctoral Scholars
Pre-Majors: If you plan to apply to be a CS or CE major, refer to our guidelines below. If you are interested in taking a majors-only course, please see our Non-major Options page for more information.
Pre-req: CSE 332, 312 and one of (446, 442, 344)
Pre-req: CSE 351, 332 and ideally one 400
Preparing for Industry: Suggested Computing Specializations
Preparing to Apply
Prereq: (recommended) CSE 490 D, (recommended) CSE440
Prereq: CSE 369 and 474
Prereq: CSE 447, CSE446 (ML) is recommended
Prereq: CSE 484 (CE students graduating in fall who have not completed 484, please send email asap to ugrad-adviser@cs.washington.edu )
Prereqs: CSE 351 and 332
Prerequisite Substitutions
Prerequisite(s)
Prerequisites
Prerequisites: (Recommended) CSE 490N, (Recommended) CSE 446 or CSE 473
Prerequisites: 446 or 447 strongly recommended but not required
Prerequisites: CSE 312; CSE 331; CSE 332
Prerequisites: CSE 332 and CSE 312, and at least one of CSE 446, CSE 442, or CSE 344.
Prerequisites: CSE 332 or instructor permission
Prerequisites: CSE 332, and at least 1, CSE 400 level course recommended
Prerequisites: CSE 332, and at least one CSE 400 level course recommended
Prerequisites: CSE 332; CSE 351; either CSE 331 or CSE 352
Prerequisites: CSE 340 or CSE 440 or HCDE 318 or INFO 360
Prerequisites: CSE 351 and 332
Prerequisites: CSE 351, 332 and ideally one 400
Prerequisites: CSE 351, 332 and ideally one 400-level course
Prerequisites: CSE 351, CSE 332, and ideally one 400-level CSE course
Prerequisites: CSE 446/546 and one of CSE 493 S (Advanced Machine Learning), CSE 493G (Deep Learning), CSE 447, CSE 455, CSE 478, or CSE 427.
Prerequisites: CSE 451
Prerequisites: CSE 458; CSE 459
Prerequisites: CSE 484
Prerequisites: Either CSE 331 or CSE 340 AND either CSE 440 or CSE 493E: Accessibility. CSE 332 and 351 not required, contact advising to register without the pre-requisite.
Prerequisites: Either CSE 340, CSE 440, HCDE 318, or INFO 360
Prerequisites: Either EE 271 or CSE 369; either CSE 466, EE 472, or CSE 474/EE 474
Prerequisites: Networks or ML course recommended but not required.
Prerequisites: None
Prerequisites: none listed
Prerequisites: None, but CSE 440 is strongly suggested
Prerequisites: Recommended: HCI (440) or Operating Systems (451) or Networks (461)
Prerequisites: Senior standing in CSE or permission of the instructor
Prerequisites: Senior standing in CSE or permission of the instructor.
Prerequisites: TBD
Previous Computer Engineering Handbooks
Previous Computer Science Handbooks
Previous Handbook 1986-1987
Previous Handbook 1987-1988
Previous Handbook 1988-1989
Previous Handbook 1989-1990
Previous Handbook 1990-1991 &#8211; missing
Previous Handbook 1991-1992 &#8211; missing
Previous Handbook 1992-1993
Previous Handbook 1993-1994
Previous Handbook 1994-1995
Previous Handbook 1995-1996
Previous Handbook 1996-1997
Previous Handbook 1998-1999
Previous Handbook 2000-2002
Previous Handbook Autumn 1977
Previous Handbook Autumn 1978
Previous Handbook Autumn 1980
Previous Handbook Autumn 1981
Previous Handbook Autumn 1982
Previous Handbook Autumn 1983
Previous Handbook Autumn 1984
Previous Handbook Spring 1984
Previous Handbook Winter 1981
Previous Honors Handbook 1999-2001
Prior Years Degree Requirements
Prior Years&#8217; Degree Requirements
Priority date for UW Financial Aid (extended from January 15)
Priority Deadline
Privacy
Professional Master's Program Advising:
Programming is for everyone! If you haven’t coded before, come experience the beauty and creativity of creating running code.
Projects must be large enough to require teams of several students to work on over one quarter.
Public Key
Quarter
Questions about our undergraduate program? Contact our Recruitment Team at
Questions about the UW first-year application? Contact the UW Office of Admissions at
Questions?
Read about this change here.
Register for back-up courses in case you can&#8217;t get into your first choice.
Register on NotifyUW to get an alert if space opens in the course and attend the first week to try and keep up in the course in case you do get a spot. We will monitor demand on NotifyUW and try to add more space when needed.
Registering for full CSE courses:
Renton Technical College &#8211; Bachelor of Applied Science in Application Development
Requirements to Graduate with CSE Honors
Research
Research &#038; Innovation
Research Colloquia
Research Opportunities
Research Overview
Returning students who have completed coursework elsewhere since attending the UW&#8217;s Seattle campus are eligible to apply as current UW students. Students who are enrolled at UW Bothell or UW Tacoma should apply through our transfer admissions pathway. Unfortunately, because demand exceeds capacity, current UW student admissions pathway is competitive and the Allen School is not able to offer admissions to all current UW applicants.
Robotics & Control Systems
Robotics is about developing systems that can operate effectively in the real world. Robotics engineers develop algorithms that can handle noisy sensor data, learn models of the environment, and make decisions in real time. Modern robotics encompasses areas such as optimal control, probabilistic reasoning, state estimation, machine learning, and artificial intelligence. Robotics tools are applicable to a wide range of problem spaces beyond robotics, including speech recognition, machine vision, analysis of noisy data streams, interactive computer gaming, and brain-machine interfacing.
Room Reservations
Running Start Appointments
Running Start students can use the UW Equivalency Guide and MyPlan to determine which courses at UW are equivalent to their Running Start courses. Running Start students should prioritize ensuring that they complete well-rounded coursework in all core subject areas (English, math, science, social studies), exceeding the College Academic Distribution Requirements when possible.
Saarland Exchange
Saint Martin’s University
Scholarships &#038; Awards
School History
Schoolwide Policies
Scientific Computing
Search scope
Seattle Pacific University
Seattle University
Seattle, WA 98195-2350
Seattle, WA 98195-2355
Second Choice Major
Security
See Above
Send the two completed, saved PDFs to the registrar via email at c2reg@uw.edu
September 1
September 23
September 3
September 30 (5 pm)
Sitemap
Skip to content
SOC 225 Data & Society (either 3cr or 5cr version) (3-5)
Software & Hardware Systems
Software &#038; Hardware Systems
Software Engineering
Software engineers design, build and evolve software in a broad variety of domains. Although many focus on specific aspects of the software lifecycle &#8212; requirements engineering, architecture and design, testing and analysis, etc. &#8212; software engineers collectively address software systems from &#8220;womb&#8221; to &#8220;tomb.&#8221; Software engineers need to understand the needs of users, design approaches to manage software complexity and to ease change over time, ways to assess the properties that the software product does or does not have, algorithmic and implementation techniques to build efficient software, and more. Making effective trade-offs about issues ranging from performance to reliability to availability to ease of change (and more!) is part-and-parcel of a software engineer&#8217;s job.
Some non-matriculated students (students finishing a degree from another program and moved to the area with a spouse, an alumni wanting to take a course they didn’t get to as a ugrad, etc)
Some of the concepts are covered in: Math 300 , Phil 120 , Stat 390 or 391 , and E E 271
Some students choose to pursue a double major or double degree. There are a few known substitutions that we&#8217;ll list here:
Some students may need to petition the university for additional credits or quarters to complete their degree due to extenuating circumstances. Students must have a conversation with their academic adviser if they feel their situation warrants an extension of the University&#8217;s academic satisfactory progress policy, which requires students to complete their undergraduate degree program within 30 credits beyond the minimum required for their degree.
Sometimes a student will enter the Allen School with a significant number of MATH and STAT courses completed. If this is the case, you may try petitioning to waive CSE 311 via a substitution from a math course. Generally asking for just MATH 300 or just MATH/STAT 394 is not enough for a substitution. If you have not taken a significant number of MATH or STAT courses that cover this material, then generally you should plan to take CSE 311. A few known exceptions to this outcome follow:
Space is extremely limited in our majors-only classes, and we often do not have space for students outside of the Allen School. Highly qualified non-majors can request space in these classes on a quarterly basis through our non-major enrollment request form (formerly referred to as a &#8220;petition&#8221;). Unfortunately, most requests cannot be accommodated due to capacity constraints. The Allen School has an extensive set of upper-division non-major course offerings for Non-Major students in Computer Science or Computer Engineering degree programs. These courses are open to all matriculated students at UW who meet the course prerequisites.
Specializations
Specializations By Department & Course Number
Specializations Listed By Department and Course Number
Spring 2010-Spring 2011
Spring 2021
Spring 2022
Spring 2023
Spring 2024
Spring 2025
Spring 2026
Spring 2026 Personal Statement Workshop Presentation
Spring Admissions
STAT 391: Data Mining, Biology/Bioengineering/Medicine/Genomics, Mathematical Foundations, Robotics &#038; Control Systems, Scientific Computing
Stat/CSE Double Majors: STAT 435 can count as a CSE core-course in place of CSE 446 (no credit for both toward the CSE degree) In the Data Science option, STAT 303 can replace SOC 225
STAT/INFO/CSE 180, Introduction to Data Science (IDS), is a course offered every quarter. It is a survey course introducing the essential elements of data science: data integrity including the ethics and social context of data; data methods including using tables, graphs, and other visualizations; and data analysis, including statistics methods and machine learning. It is not a programming course: rather than programming, students gain hands-on experience with other software tools and methods.
Strengthen Your Application
Student Engagement & Access Team
Student Life
Student Organizations
Student Recognition
Student Recruitment Representatives
Student Resources
Student Services
Student Stories
Students applying to the Allen School should consider alternative degree options as well. UW offers many other excellent computing-related majors that are far more than &#8220;back-up&#8221; plans. Choose a major you enjoy and that will help further your personal, academic, and professional goals. Students in any major may take non-major Allen School courses to build technical skills.
Students can take CSE 123 after CSE 122 self-place into CSE 123 if they have substantial prior experience such that they are already familiar with the CSE 122 material. See our guided self-placement. The course content is designed for students aiming toward academic and career plans where software implementation is a major component
Students have a number of options for further study. Three complementary courses are specifically designed to follow CSE 142: (1) CSE 143 is the continuation course for those who want to develop more advanced programming skills in Java and is the next step toward most upper-division CSE courses, (2) CSE 154 is a web programming course covering many technologies used to implement web pages, and (3) CSE 163 is a programming course focused on data analysis with a variety of data-science programming tools.
Students have multiple options for building on what they learn in CSE 110. A natural next step may be to follow principle with practice by enrolling in one of our introductory programming courses, CSE 121 or CSE 160. While CSE 110 offers a great introduction to computer science concepts, it is not a necessary prerequisite for enrollment in those programming courses.
Students must apply concepts from more than one sub-area of CSE (at the 300-level and above).
Students must have achieved a grade of at least 2.0 in any one of CSE 122, CSE123, CSE 142, CSE 143, CSE 160, or CSE 163 to enroll in this course.
Students must present their work using formal oral presentations and written reports.
Students sometimes decide to delay taking CSE 331 until the end of their time in the Allen School with the intention to waive the course based on prior internship/industry experience. These petition requests are always denied. If you are petitioning a waiver for any course, you typically need to prove how you have acquired the academic knowledge covered in the course. Simply having internship experience has been determined to not be a viable substitute for this course. Ideally students would complete 331 early in their academic career and before embarking on a software internship to get the most benefit from the course.
Students typically complete their thesis during their last quarter of research. Once a decision is made to pursue departmental honors, you should notify your faculty advisor and determine a topic for your senior thesis. The honors research and project should be completed with one faculty member, or, in the rare instance where you need to switch advisors, faculty within the same area of research as the original advisor.
Students who are currently in high school, Running Start students, and students who have not completed any college coursework since graduating from high school can apply through the Allen School&#8217;s DTM pathway. Most Allen School undergraduate students enter through the DTM pathway.
Students who complete CSE 143X have the same options for further study as students who have completed CSE 123 or CSE 143.
Students who do not receive an offer of admissions from the Allen School may still be admitted to the University of Washington as a ‘pre-major’ student.
Students will also have opportunities to delve into networking technologies, exploring how connected systems and distributed AI can enable groundbreaking applications, from edge computing to real-time collaboration between devices. Students will learn to navigate the constraints of mobile hardware and deploy sophisticated machine learning models that enhance user experiences in dynamic, networked environments. By the end of the course, students will have not only gained technical skills in on-device AI and networking but also gained invaluable experience in project management, cross-disciplinary collaboration, and communicating technical solutions. This capstone prepares students for careers at the forefront of on-device AI and network-driven innovation, ready to redefine how intelligent systems connect and operate.
Students will work in groups of four on a single project that will tie together and apply previous experiences from CSE 312, 332, 446, 442, 344, and other classes. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate machine learning, visualization and database methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be limited lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end data analysis process from transformation and exploration of data to modeling and evaluation. Your group will brainstorm on a project during the first week, before collaboratively exploring the data and implementing a complete data analysis workflow. This capstone course gives hands-on experience with selecting a data science question, and with crafting and evaluating a data science process to answer that question. question.
Students will work in groups of three or four on a single project that parallels the experience of delivering an interactive prototype within a company or with a customer. Students are expected to already possess knowledge of appropriate HCI methods, and will focus on independently applying those methods in the context of your project. There will therefore be little lecture material in this course. Course staff will instead work closely with students to critique and advise on their group project. Students will experience the end-to-end product cycle from design to deployment.
Students without programming experience — see our guided self-placement to help you choose among CSE 121, CSE 122, and CSE 123 if you haven’t already taken any of them. All three courses enthusiastically welcome students based on self-placement.
Study Abroad
Study Center
Study resourcefully. UW and CSE provide lots of academic aids. Get help before you need it. Visit your professors and TAs during Office Hours. Collaborate with classmates in the undergrad labs. Email the CSE advisers about tutoring groups if you want extra study help in 300- and 400-level CSE classes. For introductory courses, the Intro Programming Labs (IPL), the Math Study Center, and CLUE are all great resources.
Subject Area
Submit a Senior Thesis that meets the following requirements:
Suggested Course Pathways to prepare for industry and graduate school
Summer
Summer 2026
Synthetic biology aims at modeling/manipulating natural biological systems for our benefit.
Systems developers create and manage the software environment for application development and execution. A systems developer may write operating systems (e.g., for a cell phone, desktop, or data-center server), data-center infrastructure (distributed file systems, web-server software, networking stacks), databases, compilers, networking and security.
Systems Development
Systems Development, Web Development
TA Tools
Take nine credits of graded research in honors section 496 . If you are uncertain whether your research will lead to an honors project when you start, you may take the first three credits in CSE 498. However, the last six credits of honors work must be in 496.
Taught by: Alisa Liu and Orevaoghene Ahia
Taught by: Althoff
Taught by: Amy Zhang
Taught by: Anderson, Richard
Taught by: Barbara Mones
Taught by: Basia Radka
Taught by: Cakmak
Taught by: E.E.
Taught by: ECE
Taught by: ECE Department
Taught by: Franzi Roesner
Taught by: Haduong
Taught by: Heimerl
Taught by: Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman
Taught by: James Fogarty
Taught by: Jennifer Mankoff
Taught by: Kohno
Taught by: Maya Cakmak
Taught by: N. Smith
Taught by: Noah Smith
Taught by: Pang Wei Koh
Taught by: Patel,Shwetak N.
Taught by: Popovic
Taught by: R. Anderson
Taught by: Rajesh Rao
Taught by: Reinecke
Taught by: Richard Anderson
Taught by: Roesner
Taught by: S. Peter
Taught by: Sheng Wang
Taught by: Shwetak N. Patel
Taught by: Shyam Gollakota
Taught by: Simon Peter
Taught by: Steve Tanimoto
Taught by: Tim Althoff
Taught by: Wang
Taught by: Yoshi Kohno
Taught by: Zhang
Taught by: Zoran Popovic
Teaching Assistants
Terms
The &#8220;Distribution Begins&#8221; date is the earliest we&#8217;ll start issuing add codes, contingent on instructor readiness. You may not hear about your petition until the end of the first week of the quarter.
The Allen School accepts applications for students to start in either spring or autumn quarter, we do not accept applications for winter or summer quarters.
The Allen School allows for people outside the Ph.D. program (otherwise known as a &#8216;non-major&#8217;) to take 500-level courses. Matriculated students should complete the enrollment petition linked below. The petition is updated every quarter, so be sure the title reflects the correct term. Non-matriculated students can use the same enrollment petition.
The Allen School departmental application is typically open for about two weeks before the application deadline. Interested in starting early? The departmental application essay prompt is available online at any time (look at the Computer Science & Engineering dropdown).
The Allen School has an extensive set of upper-division course offerings for students NOT majoring in Computer Science or Computer Engineering degree programs. These courses are open to all matriculated students at UW who meet the course prerequisites. Non-matriculated students may enroll on a space-available basis (see below). Please check our catalog for a general description of these courses. The links below take you directly to the CSE course webs rather than the course catalog.
The Allen School offers a variety of different activities for K-12 students to learn more about computing. Learn more about our K-12 outreach programs and summer opportunities.
The Allen School offers hybrid information sessions for prospective DTM applicants on the first Friday of every month from 3:30pm – 4:30pm PT. In-person attendees can stay for a tour of the Allen School buildings immediately following the information session. During this session, you’ll learn about the Allen School student experience and the DTM admissions process. Registration with the Office of Admissions is optional but encouraged!
The Allen School Peer Adviser team typically hosts two to three in-person personal statement workshops where students will receive information about the best practices for personal statement writing, and then will have open unstructured time to work on their personal statement. Peer Advisers will be present to answer questions &#8211; please note that Allen School Academic Advisers do not provide feedback on personal statements. Each session does have a capacity limit to ensure attendees will have opportunities to ask questions within the workshop time. Participants are limited to attending a maximum of one group workshop. To attend a workshop, you must first reserve a spot .
The Allen School Student Recruitment Representatives are current students studying Computer Science or Computer Engineering in the Allen School who hold student employee positions focused on recruiting prospective students. They offer virtual appointments for high school students to answer any questions and share a bit about their experiences in the Allen School. These appointments are only available during the academic year (late September through early June).
The Allen School&#8217;s Direct to Major (DTM) admissions pathway welcomes applicants who want to join the UW&#8217;s Computer Science or Computer Engineering major as first-year students!
The core courses for ICTD (from a CSE perspective) are very close to those for embedded systems design but with a stronger emphasis on information system design. Many courses in the Information School and Department of Human-Centered Design and Engineering are also very appropriate as are courses in areas of public health, economic policy, and education (depending on student interests). You may also want to attend the Change seminar on Thursdays at noon (CSE590C1) to hear speakers talk about work on ICTD both at UW and elsewhere &#8211; attendees are undergrads, grads, researchers, and faculty from around campus and the greater Seattle area.
The course is offered 2-3 times per year with each offering having capacity for approximately 300 students. We will continue to expand overall capacity as needed in the years ahead.
The course name and number of the course you&#8217;d like to take.
The courses below provide a core foundation in computer security. 484 is the keystone course. However, one tenet of computer security is that it is much harder to defend systems than attack systems. That is because an attacker needs to find only one way to succeed, whereas a defender needs to protect against all possible attacks. Computer-security issues can also affect all parts of a system, from the hardware to the user interface. Therefore, a computer-security practitioner should have as broad of a working knowledge in computer science as possible.
The CS and CE programs each require you to take 180 total credits to graduate. You will need to fulfill a General Education component, a Mathematics and Science component, and a Computer (Science or Engineering) component that consists of required classes and senior electives. For those students who are considering a double major, see below for an explanation of exceptions to our standard degree requirements.
The curriculum for a software engineer is heavily, but not solely, experiential. 331 and 403 are essential courses, as is one or more software capstone courses (and, when possible, internships or coops). Understanding the context for software from top-to-bottom is valuable for any software engineer, making courses like 341 and 401, 333 and 451 and 461 , 440, 344 and 444, 484, and 421 worthy of serious consideration. Students should also consider taking Business or Communication courses as possible general education courses.
The descriptions below do NOT describe our lower-division (100-level) courses. Those courses are described on our Introductory courses section , which we STRONGLY recommend you visit. Our upper-division courses have lower-division courses as prerequisites.
The Elements of Style
The enrollment request form for the upcoming quarters will be available on this page as follows:
The following links provide all the information required to (1) determine your core and elective options, (2) see yearly capstone course offerings, (3) plan a pathway toward a specific specialization, and (4) help in determining your future course planning:
The following list of &#8220;specializations&#8221; are typically either areas of computing or job titles or both. Unfortunately, most job titles are not used consistently by different companies &#8212; as one example, &#8220;software engineer&#8221; can range from meaning &#8220;entry-level programmer&#8221; to &#8220;advanced software architect.&#8221; Nonetheless, we try to follow the most common usage.
The following restrictions apply for undergraduate CSE courses:
The following restrictions may also apply to students who submit the non-major enrollment petition:
The Grad Advising team will then email you a digital copy of the NM Student Registration Approval Form via Docusign. Sign and complete the document. We will manage contact with the faculty member on your behalf.
The information below is meant to help you understand the CSE 300-level courses and their prerequisites. Click here for a visual representation of the information .
The last offering of CSE 142 will be Summer 2022 as we transition to CSE 121, CSE 122, and CSE 123 in place of CSE 142 and CSE 143. We retain the information below as reference for students who took CSE 142 or corresponding courses at other institutions.
The main courses required to complete the Data Science option are already among the listed “CSE Core Courses” that Computer Science majors chose from to fulfill the degree requirements. The overall number of credits required for the Computer Science degree is the same. Students wanting to explore or declare the Computer Science- Data Science degree should make an appointment with an academic adviser to discuss their options and to complete necessary paperwork.
The most core courses to an embedded systems career stress a deep understanding of how devices connect to the physical world and how real-time control software can be used to control physical systems and manage highly concurrent tasks.
The most salient characteristic of systems software is the need for reliability. If your operating system breaks, the user typically can&#8217;t get anything else done, and it might even corrupt their data permanently. The flaw might even provide an opportunity for a hacker to gain control over the user&#8217;s computer. The need for reliability is equally true for data-center software, the network, the compiler, and so forth. Making this even more challenging, systems software is often inherently complex; for example, the back-end software for a data center must deal with concurrency, recovery from node failures, resource overload conditions, and attacks from miscreants.
The most up-to-date information on courses is found on our Time Schedule page , which includes links to the time schedules and our internal teaching schedule that outlines when and what courses will be taught each academic year.
The motivation for many of the courses above will be self-evident, but to amplify a little, the scale and nature of the data make databases, statistical approaches, and algorithms very relevant, and common use of a wide variety of languages, e.g., Perl, Python, R, Matlab, motivates 341. There also are many relevant courses in Chem/Biochem/Biology/Genetics/Bio Engineering/etc. Unfortunately, most have significant prerequisites, but if they fit your schedule, go for it! As just one of many examples, BIOL 180/200 (Intro Biology) -> GENOME 371 (Intro Genetics) -> GENOME 372 (Genomics and Proteomics) -> GENOME 373 (Genomic Informatics) would be a great series for anyone with an interest in computational biology.
The student clearly articulates why learning the course material will directly benefit them
The student is able to attend the first day of school and all subsequent classes
The student is qualified for the course and has taken the prerequisites or appropriate alternatives
The University of Washington is a public institution, which means that funding for the university comes partially from Washington State. For this reason, the University of Washington offers priority in admissions to residents of Washington State. Domestic non-resident students and international students can note in their personal statement any compelling reasons why they wish to attend college in Washington.
The UW Office of Admissions considers applicants for DTM admission into the Allen School for autumn quarter admission only. High school applicants should plan to submit their application during the fall of their senior year to start at UW the following year.
The UW Office of Admissions looks for well-rounded students who receive strong grades across all of their core subject areas. Competitive applicants will go beyond the College Academic Distribution Requirements in most subject areas. The best academic preparation for Computer Science or Computer Engineering is taking the most rigorous curriculum offered at your high school. This includes advanced classes if available (Running Start, Honors, AP, IB, etc.), especially in English, math, and science. If you do not have access to these opportunities, you should include a note about that in your application.
The work must involve a substantial design effort.
The work should be original and demonstrate creative thinking, as judged by your faculty supervisor.
Theory & Models of Computation
Theory &#038; Models of Computation
There are a few populations who may still petition to take a majors-only course during the academic year. While we can not guarantee space, these students may still inquire:
There are a host of other jointly listed courses between ECE and CSE
There are always more qualified applicants than space available in our programs. Therefore, our process is competitive, and we must deny admission to some students with good academic records. We typically have space for approximately 25-35% of all students who apply however this number changes depending on increases in funding. It&#8217;s also important to note that we do not admit differently between Computer Science and Computer Engineering, we consider all applications together and admit without taking specific major into account. The admit rate in 2020 was 28% (113 admitted/402 applied), in 2021 it was 30% (165 admitted/554 applied), in 2022 it was 30% (134 admitted /444 applied), in 2023 it was 33% (165 admitted /495 applied), and in 2024 it was 32% (168 admitted/522 applied)
There are multiple facets to working with databases, and different jobs may emphasizes different facets. The application facet requires you to have a good understanding of database design, SQL, XML, jdbc: definitely take 344 and strongly consider 484 and 403. If you want to be a true expert, however, it will tremendously help you to know how databases work inside, how they are implemented, so make sure to take 444! 440 may be helpful for creating applications that are easy to use, so you should consider it. For the server facet (database administrator) you must have a good understanding of query processing techniques, types of indices, transactions, and anything that deals with systems performance; take 344, 444, 484, and very strongly consider 451. For the data analyst/data-intensive computing facet, you need to have some exposure to massively parallel data processing techniques such as MapReduce, or Pig Latin, and some basics in data mining: take 344, 444, 446.
There are similar programs in the area which take transfer students, and we highly recommend that you apply to multiple programs if you&#8217;re sure you want to study Computer Science or Computer Engineering. You should consider:
There is no separate application for Allen School DTM applicants and no additional materials are required. Your application will be reviewed by the UW Office of Admissions, so questions about the application should be directed to askuwadm@uw.edu.
There is sufficient course staff available
These 4 CSE Core Courses:
These courses are specifically designed for students in other majors. While their content overlaps with courses for CSE majors as described below, they aim to have fewer prerequisites, are often broader in scope, and should complement the courses that students take in other majors.
These courses must be completed and numerically graded (with a minimum grade of a 2.0) prior to the departmental application deadline.
These exciting specialties require creativity, as well as computer science and math skills.
This capstone focuses on human-centered design with and around AI:
This class will provide students with an intensive 10-week experience in successfully completing an intellectually-exciting project in mobile systems and networking. Participants will work in small groups to learn new technical skills to quickly absorb and adapt new technical knowledge, gain experience in mobile programming and networking, implement their ideas on mobile devices and perform thorough experiments and analysis. Other than programming, no prerequisites are required.
This course is a joint project of Statistics, the Information School, and the Allen School, synthesizing the perspectives and expertise of the units. It was jointly developed, and each department/school leads one quarter’s offering each year. The offerings cover the same material.
This petition is only for 500-level classes, and students who petition are not guaranteed to be approved. Once the petition is live, review of petitions occurs at the timing discretion of the course instructor, usually on a quasi-rolling basis. Students may not receive an add code for several reasons, including but not limited to, lack of seating in the class, instructor preference to keep their course to Allen School Ph.D. students, or not having background skill suitable for the course. Our goal is to send out add codes, if available, by the first week of the term. Current CSE Ph.D. students are given priority in these course offerings. The CSE Grad Advising Office reserves the right to distribute add-codes in all ways that promote administrative coherence.
This section describes our introductory courses (100-level courses), so you can find the best course to start &#8212; or continue &#8212; your journey.
This was the last year CSE had separate tracks for Hardware and Software within Computer Engineering.
Thus, central to the curriculum for a systems developer is systems construction experience (via project oriented systems classes like 333 and 451, as well as internships and software capstones), breadth of knowledge of how systems work and how they break (461 and 484), principles of software engineering practice (331 and 403), technology trends, and specialized courses depending on time and interest (e.g., for compiler construction, one would want 341, 401).
Time Schedules
To be considered for DTM admission into the Allen School, applicants must submit the UW first-year application with either Computer Science or Computer Engineering as their first-choice major. No computing experience is required to be considered for DTM admissions.
To be considered for the current UW student admissions pathway, applicants must be currently (or previously) enrolled at the University of Washington&#8217;s Seattle campus with at least 12 completed credits at UW-Seattle. Most often, these students would be &#8216;interest changers&#8217; &#8211; students who came to UW with another interest in mind and later developed a passion for Computer Science or Computer Engineering.
Transfer Admissions
Transfer Applicant FAQ
Types of Research Credit
ugrad-adviser at cs.washington.edu
