Owner: uw-seattle-political-science
Source: https://www.polisci.washington.edu/political-science-major-declaration-and-requirements
Title: Political Science Major Declaration and Requirements | Department of Political Science | University of Washington

(1) POLS 500 - Political Research Design and Analysis (Fall of first year)
(2) POLS 501 - Advanced Political Research Design and Analysis (Winter of first year)
(3) POLS 503 - Advanced Quantitative Research Methods (Spring of first year) OR one course from a list of Qualitative and Mixed-Methods Courses . Students using the qualitative or mixed-method course option must take this course before completing the MA. See the Political Methodology field requirements for a list of accepted qualitative and mixed method courses, as well as procedures for petitioning for alternative courses to fulfill this option.
[Supplemental official source] Requirements
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
1) Email polsadvc@uw.edu with the following information:
101 Gowen Hall, Box 353530
2) If you need to talk with a Political Science adviser, make an appointment .
A Political Science adviser will contact you with instructions on how to complete submission of your application. In some cases, the adviser may need to meet with you before submitting the application.
A student must also prepare in a second general field or in one of the specialized fields: area study (i.e., China Studies or Environmental Politics ), Public Law, Political Economy, Political Methodology, or Race, Ethnicity & Politics. Specialized fields are periodically redefined given faculty/student interests. The third field may be a general or specialized field or the doctoral student may choose to substitute one non-designated field that is constructed from another academic discipline such as anthropology or sociology, or individually defined by the student. International law, public administration, urban politics, political psychology, ethnicity and nationality, philosophy of social science, and language policy are examples of recent non-designated fields.
A. Political Theory
About
Adjuncts & Affiliates
Administrative Forms
Admissions
Advising
Advising News
After completing course requirements for each of a students’ three fields they sit a comprehensive exam in order to prove their expertise in each area. The student takes each exam in the same quarter, followed by an oral exam . For more information on each exam structure and schedule, visit the field page. The methodology field does not require a comprehensive field exam.
All Events
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Update
Alumni Updates
American Politics
An appointment is recommended only if you have questions or concerns about graduation that need to be discussed with an adviser.
Apply for the option when you have completed at least 6 courses or when you apply to graduate. Students who complete the international security option will receive the notation Political Science: International Security on their UW transcript.
Apply for the option when you have completed at least 6 courses or when you apply to graduate. Students who complete the political economy option will receive the notation Political Science: Political Economy on their UW transcript.
Arts & Humanities Courses
Autumn 2026: Form opens week of July 6. October 11 submission deadline.
Awards & Recognitions
B. Comparative Government and Politics
C. International Relations
Calendar
Center for Environmental Politics Events
Centers & Forums
Centers & Forums Overview
Changing Your Graduation Date
Chinese Politics
Click on each field to see MA and doctoral requirements.
College of Arts & Sciences
Comparative Politics
Complete four additional courses numbered Pol S 210 and above to bring total credits to 50. No field restrictions. Independent studies and internships (e.g., Pol S 489, 496, 498, 499) do not count toward the major. 5 credits of Pol S 497 will count toward the major.
Complete one course numbered Pol S 210 and above chosen from three of the following five fields
Complete three introductory courses, chosen from the following options:
Conference Rooms
Constructed fields (e.g., Environmental Politics, Political Communication, South Asian Politics)
Contact Us
Convocation
Courses
Current Newsletter
D. American Government and Politics
Degree Posting & Receiving Your Diploma
Degree Posting and Receiving Your Diploma
Demonstration of competence in a foreign language is not required for the Ph.D. Should the student select a field(s) where the supervisory committee believes that competence in a language would be beneficial, they will be so advised.
Department General Fields and Specialized Fields
Department of Political Science
Department Student Awards
Directories
Dissertations
Distinguished Alumni Awards
Double Majors and Double Degrees
Download the requirements and courses lists for the International Security Option:
Download the requirements and courses lists from the Political Economy Option:
E. Methods
Email polsadvc@uw.edu if you have difficulty opening the form.
Expected Graduation Quarter
Faculty
Faculty Meetings
Fax: (206) 685-2146
Field Requirements
Fields of Interest
For students entering in September 2023, see the following requirements .
For students entering on or after September 2024:
For students who entered in or prior to September 2022, see the following requirements .
Foreign Language
Foreign Language Requirement
Funding
General and Specialized Fields
General Fields
Grad Students & TAs
Graduate
Graduate Students
Graduating Senior Priority : Up to 2 quarters before your graduation quarter (for example, apply in autumn to graduate in spring). Quarterly deadlines are posted on UW's Academic Calendar .
Graduation Ceremonies
Graduation Ceremonies: Political Science Convocation and UW Commencement
Handout about the Major Including resources and programs for political science majors, a worksheet with requirements for the major and the options, and a list of courses and how they count for the Field Distribution requirement.
Health, Safety & Support
Hire a UW Ph.D.
Home
Honors
Honors & Awards
Honors Programs: Departmental Honors and/or College/Interdisciplinary Honors
How to Apply to Graduate
How to Declare the Major
How to Declare the Political Science Major
If you are already declared in your minor(s), you are all set. If you are not already declared in your minor(s), your Political Science adviser will submit that form when you apply to graduate. If you are completing an interdisciplinary minor (Global Health, Diversity, Human Rights, etc.), you will need to see the adviser for that minor to complete your graduation application.
If you are pursuing a double major or double degree, apply to graduate with each department.
If you attended a Washington State community college, see the Transfer Equivalency Guide to see how courses will transfer to UW. The Office of Admissions evaluates and awards transfer credit according to UW transfer policies . See a Political Science adviser if you have questions about how Admissions has evaluated your coursework taken at other schools.
If you declared a minor that you do not intend to complete, your adviser will need to submit a form to drop you from the minor. Your degree will not be granted if minor requirements are not fulfilled.
If you would like to change your graduation quarter, contact Political Science Advising .
In order to graduate, students need a minimum cumulative major GPA of at least 2.25. If your cumulative political science GPA has dropped below 2.25, consult with a Political Science adviser .
International Relations
International Security and Political Economy Option Courses
International Security Option
International Security Option (PDF)
Internships
Introductory Requirement: 3 courses (15 credits)
Key Dates: Entry to the Major and Orientation
Lectures & Seminars
LinkedIn
Main menu
Major
Major & Minor
Major Distribution Requirement: 3 courses (15 Credits)
Major Elective Requirement: 4 courses (20 credits)
Major Requirements
Make a Gift
Maps
Menu
Methodology Requirement
Minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA.
Minimum grades of 2.0 in each political science introductory course. Consult with a Political Science adviser if any of your grades are below 2.0.
Minimum Major G.P.A. for Graduation
Minimum Requirements
Minor
Minors
Minors that you are completing, including if you need to add or drop a minor
MyUW
Natural Sciences Courses
News & Events
Newsletter
Newsletter Archive
No more than 20 credits can be used to satisfy both the option and the requirements for any other major. Courses that are not in Pol S (courses offered by departments other than Pol S) fulfill only elective coursework towards the option, not major requirements.
NOTE: Participating in graduation ceremonies does not mean that you have graduated. Degrees are conferred only when all graduation requirements have been fulfilled.
Office Policies
On this page:
OR
Organizations for Students
Other majors/degrees that you are completing. You must apply for graduation with each program.
People
Ph.C. and Ph.D.
Ph.D. Placement Record
Ph.D. Program Requirements
Ph.D. Program Requirements | Department of Political Science | University of Washington
Phone: (206) 543-2780
Placement Record
Pol S 101, Introduction to Politics (not currently offered at UW)
Pol S 201, Introduction to Political Theory
Pol S 202, Introduction to American Politics
Pol S 203, Introduction to International Relations
Pol S 204, Introduction to Comparative Politics
polisci@uw.edu
Political Economy
Political Economy Forum
Political Economy Option
Political Economy Option (PDF)
Political Methodology
Political Science Convocation
Political Science is a minimum requirement major. Students who meet the minimum requirements may declare the major.
Political Science MA Requirement
Political Science Major Declaration and Requirements
Political Science Major Declaration and Requirements | Department of Political Science | University of Washington
Political Science Major That You Are Completing: General Major, Political Economy Option, or International Security Option
Political Theory
Political Theory Colloquium
Prior to completion of all requirements for three fields, the doctoral program requires that a graduate student write and defend a Paper of Distinction. The paper must be an article-length paper as close as possible to publishable standards and will be orally defended before a committee. The paper, completion of the methodology courses, and several student selected courses fulfill the requirements for an M.A. in Political Science. This University of Washington degree is a requirement for advancement in the Ph.D. program.
Privacy
Program Overview
Programs & Courses
Projected Courses
Public Law
Publications
Quarterly Graduation Application Deadline: Third Friday of the quarter you intend to graduate.
Quick links
Quick Links
Race, Ethnicity & Politics
Race, Ethnicity, and Politics
Recent News
Related Programs & Centers
Requirements
Research
Research & Independent Study
Resources
Search
Seattle, WA 98195
Seminars
Severyns Ravenholt Seminar in Comparative Politics
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Specialized Fields
Spring 2026 Major Declaration Request Form
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Guide
Students entering the graduate program are expected to complete the MA degree (40 credits minimum) within two years. After completing the methodology courses, two core courses, and generally two to three additional courses in two fields, the graduate student will complete a Paper of Distinction and an oral examination, to demonstrate substantive field knowledge and the ability to synthesize and apply that knowledge to new problems.
Students intending to work primarily in the field of Political Theory may apply for an exemption to requirements (2) and (3) above. This application should be made to a faculty member in the field of Political Theory, the Political Methodology Field Coordinator and the Chair of the Graduate Program Committee prior to the end of their first quarter enrolled in the program. Students seeking this exemption should note that its use may limit access to other opportunities within the program, potentially including certain coursework, advisors, and committee members in fields other than political theory.
Students must complete at least 50 credits, 15 introductory plus 35 upper-level credits, with minimum grades of 2.0 in each course used to fulfill major requirements.
Students who graduated in summer, autumn, winter or applied to graduate in spring may participate in the UW Commencement. Students who graduate in the upcoming summer may participate if they apply for graduation by the third Friday of spring quarter. See the Commencement website for information.
Students who miss this quarter's deadline may apply for the next cycle.
Study Abroad
Submission Deadline: Sunday, April 12
Submit the online Political Science Major Declaration Request Form, due by the 2nd Sunday of each quarter.
Successful completion of the general exam , the oral defense of the dissertation prospectus, constitutes advancement to candidacy for the doctoral student, or PhC status. A candidate then completes the research and writes the dissertation for faculty review. A final exam , otherwise known as the dissertation defense , and committee approval of the doctoral dissertation complete the departmental degree requirements.
Summary of Requirements
Summer 2026: Form opens week of April 13. July 5 submission deadline.
Support Political Science
Support Us
Teaching
Technology
Terms
The department recognizes four "general fields" in political science: American Politics, Comparative Politics, International Relations, and Political Theory. The department requires each student to select at least one general field, in which the student must become familiar with the main body of literature, major intellectual issues and develop competence in that field's mode of analysis. To meet this requirement, students must take the core course in the designated field. All students are required to take at least one additional core course in another general field.
The doctorate usually takes an additional three to four years beyond the M.A. (92 credits minimum, including at least 27 credits for the dissertation). Students must pass comprehensive written and oral exams in each of the three fields, followed by the general exam , and finally the final exam or dissertation defense .
The following courses are required unless a special exemption is granted by the Graduate Program Coordinator and the Methods Field Coordinator. Students should take these courses in the order and quarters listed.
The International Security Option is for students interested in an in-depth study of international security. It is not an official major or minor or track but an optional program of study. Students who elect to follow this option must satisfy both the 50 credits required for the general Political Science Major and the additional credits for the option requirements. Up to 25 credits may overlap between the Pol S major and the option.
The M.A. Paper of Distinction is a highly polished paper of approximately forty pages in length. They often build upon papers begun in seminars.
The Political Economy Option is for students interested in an in-depth study of political economy. It is not an official major or minor or track but an optional program of study. Students who elect to follow this option must satisfy both the 50 credits required for the general Political Science Major and the additional credits for the option requirements. Up to 25 credits may overlap between the Pol S major and the option.
The Political Science Convocation takes place during final exam week and celebrates students who graduated in summer, autumn and winter and who applied to graduate in the upcoming spring and summer. For information about the upcoming convocation, see the month of June on the Political Science Events Calendar .
The Political Science doctoral program requires that a student gain competence in three fields, complete a three-course methodology requirement, sit for the comprehensive written examinations, write and orally defend the dissertation prospectus, and write and orally defend the dissertation.
The study of international security focuses on the relationship between politics and security, and specifically on the causes of war and the use and control of force: threats, promises, and the tactics, techniques, and ethics of violence. It teaches the theories and the historical context for understanding contemporary security issues.
The study of political economy concentrates on the relationship between politics and economics. It involves the application of economic theory to the analysis of non market behavior and examination of the interplay between governmental and economic institutions. It teaches the use of theoretical tools for analyzing contemporary problems. To learn more, listen to the "What Is Political Economy?" podcast recorded by faculty in the Political Science and Economics Departments.
Three political science introductory courses chosen from POL S 101, 201, 202, 203, 204 or approved equivalent. Students may submit the Political Science Major Declaration Request Form when they have completed at least two introductory courses and are enrolled in and attending the third course. If more than one course is in progress, consult with a Political Science adviser about when you are eligible to submit the major declaration request.
To apply for graduation with Political Science:
To Meet with An Adviser: Make an appointment on our website.
Transfer Credit
Transfer Students
Twitter
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Scholarships
University of Washington
Upcoming Courses
Upcoming Events
User account menu
UW Commencement
UW NetID
UW Student #
UWISC: International Security Colloquium
UWISC: International Security Colloquium: We encourage students interested in the option to attend talks sponsored by the UW International Security Colloquium (UWISC). UWISC sponsors nine speakers a year from the across the US and Europe, as well as UW faculty and students. See the International Security Colloquium page for the list of upcoming talks and subscribe to the International Security Listserv for notifications.
Visiting Scholars & Students
Visiting Students
Washington
Week 3: Review of major declaration submissions to verify that minimum requirements have been met.
Week 4: Political Science Advising notifies applicants about entry to the major.
Week 5: Major information message emailed to new students.
Week 6: Orientations to the major begin
Welcome
What is Political Science?
When to Apply
Where are you?
Winter 2027: Form opens week of October 12. January 18 submission deadline.
You are here
Your diploma will be mailed approximately three months after your final quarter at UW. For more information, see the Diplomas website.
Your Full Name as it is listed in your Student Record
Your transcript is the official document that confirms you earned your degree. Your degree will be posted to your transcript within four weeks of the end of your final quarter. See Certification for UW Graduates for additional information.
YouTube
