Owner: uw-seattle-chemical-engineering
Source: https://www.cheme.washington.edu/undergraduate_students/curriculum
Title: Curriculum | UW Chemical Engineering

[Supplemental official source] Engineering Electives
AA 210 (4 cr)
Academic Program Manager
Admission
Aeronautics and Astronautics
AMATH 301 (4cr)
Application requirements
Applied Mathematics
Beginning Scientific Computing
Below are a list of courses that may serve as engineering electives for ChemE undergraduate students.
Biochemical Engineering (w/CHEM E 467)
BIOEN 215 (3)
BIOEN 420 (4)
BIOEN 440 (4)
BIOEN 467 (3)
BIOEN 490 (3)
BIOENG 488 (4)
Bioengineering
Careers in Chemical Engineering
CHEM E 455 (3): Surface and Colloid Lab OR CHEM E 460 (3): Polymers Lab
CHEM E 485 (4): Process Design I
CHEM E 486 (5): Process Design II
Computational Protein Design*
Curriculum
Degrees & accreditation
Engineering electives
Engineering Electives (16 credits)
Engineering Statics
Engr. Materials for Biomedical Appls. (w/CHEM E 490)
Honors Program
In-Person Appointments
Internship and coop credits: Students can earn up to 4 credits of ENGR 321 to count as an engineering elective from internships, with 2 credits per quarter of full time work. It is imperative that students work with the Career Center @Engineering before the quarter they hope to receive credit in order to register. Credit is not retroactive.
Intro to Bioengineering Problem Solving
Introduction to Biomechanics
Medical Imaging
Molecular and Nano-Engineering (3 credits):
Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering (NME) option: The Nanoscience and Molecular Engineering (NME) Option in the Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering is a transcripted option focusing on nanoscale principles in molecular engineering that provides hands-on experience and stresses the interdisciplinary nature of the field. To declare the NME option, students must complete NME 220 and CHEM E 310, which are generally taken together in spring quarter of their sophomore year. For more information about the NME option for the B.S. ChemE, please see our NME Option page.
NME electives: Courses marked with (*) have been pre-approved to count toward the NME option. Students may submit additional courses for consideration by emailing the course number and description to chemeadv@uw.edu. Courses submitted for consideration should have a significant emphasis on molecular or nano-science/engineering and have a level of rigor appropriate for junior or senior level students. (i.e., be at least identified as a 300 level course).
NME option
Note - many of these courses list BIOEN 315 as prerequisites, but they waive that for ChemE students who have completed CHEM E 310, and often waive other prerequisites as well. There's no need to plan on taking a number of preparatory BIOEN courses for most of these courses.
Only one, 1-credit seminar is allowed to count toward engineering electives (e.g. CHEM E 301).
Optional focus areas
Optional focus areas: Students may choose to complete an optional focus area. These focus areas are not listed on the transcript. Many courses that count for the focus areas also count as engineering electives. For a list of focus areas, please see our Optional Focus Areas page.
Petitioning engineering electives
Plan of study
Policies
Pre-health planning
Questions?
Scholarships
SeEun Kim
Standard option: Any 16 credits listed on the Engineering Electives page. Students may also petition for other engineering courses to count. Most courses from outside the College of Engineering do not count.
Study abroad
The total number of credits needed for graduation is 180. If additional credits are needed, students can take additional electives to reach the credit requirement.
This list is not all-inclusive. Since course offerings vary dramatically and departments introduce new courses all the time, it's impossible to keep this list fully up to date. If you find other courses that are interesting looking and not on this list, please email chemeadv@uw.edu with the course title and description and request review for engineering electives.
Undergraduate research: A maximum of 9 credits of undergraduate research (CHEM E 299, CHEM E 499, of which no more than 3 credits may be CHEM E 299) may count toward engineering electives. In order to take CHEM E 499, students must have a GPA in chemical engineering core courses of 3.00 or higher. Students completing research in other engineering departments should register through their PI and then submit the form on the ChemE canvas page for it to be programmed as providing credit.
Undergraduates
Unspecified Electives
Why choose UW ChemE?
Zoom & Phone Appointments
