Owner: uw-seattle-bioengineering:pathway:programming-and-8211-choose-one-option
Source: https://bioe.uw.edu/academic-programs/undergraduate/undergraduate-degree-requirements/
Title: Undergraduate Degree Requirements &#8211; UW Bioengineering

[Supplemental official source] Bachelor’s/Master’s Program (BS/MS)
[Supplemental official source] BS Bioengineering with Option in Data Science
[Supplemental official source] BS Bioengineering with Option in Nano &#038; Molecular Engineering (NME)
[Supplemental official source] PHD Data Science Option
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
15
18 credits must be at the 500-level
18 graded credits must be at the 400/500-level
2 quarters of eScience seminar, currently offered as ENGR 591 (formerly CHEM E 599), Data Science Seminar (1 credit, CR/NC).
3
36 total credits
4
4-5
44
5
5 credits must have a BIOEN prefix
6 credits must be 500 level
ABET Accreditation
About the Program
About UW BioE
Academic Programs
Academic student employee (ASE) pay rates
Additional BS/MS requirements
Adjunct Faculty
Advising and Academic Services Staff
Affiliate Faculty
All 13 credits must be graded
Alumni
AMATH 301
AMATH 516: Numerical Optimization (3 cr)
AMATH 563: Inferring Structure of Complex Systems (5 cr)
AMATH 583: High Performance Scientific Computing (5 cr)
An academic plan outlining which Data Science requirements have been completed and how the remaining requirements will be fulfilled.
Annual Teaching Schedule
Approved courses in other UW departments
At least 1 course each in 2 of the following data science areas:
Awards and Recognition
Bachelor’s/Master’s Program (BS/MS)
Bachelor&#8217;s/Master&#8217;s Program (BS/MS)
Beginning Scientific Computing
Biochemical and Molecular Bioengineering
BioE e-News
BioE Life
BIOEN 215
BIOEN 315
BIOEN 316
BIOEN 537: Computational Systems Biology (4 cr)
BIOEN 584 Computational Modeling and Simulation of Bioelectricity (4 cr)
BIOEN 585: Computational Bioengineering (4 cr)
BIOEN 588: Computational Protein Design (4 cr)
BIOEN 599: Advanced Modeling & Controls for Systems Biology (3 cr)
BioEngage
BioEngage &#8211; UW BioE Industry Engagement
Bioengineering Core (37 credits)
Bioengineering Departmental Seminar
Bioengineering Dept offerings
Bioengineering Problem Solving (or ENGR 115 Engineering Transformation of Health)
Bioengineering Professional Series (BPS) track: BIOEN 530: Literature Analysis (2 credits, CR/NC), BIOEN 531: Grant Writing (2 credits) or BIOEN 532: Professional Development (1 credit, CR/NC)
Bioengineering Undergraduate Info Sessions
BIOL 180, 200, 220
Biomedical Signals and Sensors
BIOSTAT 511, 517, 524; STAT 502, 504, 509, 512, or UCONJ 510 (2 cr, approved by petition when submitting the student plan)
BS Bioengineering with Option in Data Science
BS Bioengineering with Option in Data Science &#8211; UW Bioengineering
BS Bioengineering with Option in Data Science 2023-06-23T06:39:23-07:00
BS Bioengineering with Option in Nano & Molecular Engineering (NME)
BS Bioengineering with Option in Nano &#038; Molecular Engineering (NME)
BS Bioengineering with Option in Nano &#038; Molecular Engineering (NME) &#8211; UW Bioengineering
BS Bioengineering with Option in Nano &#038; Molecular Engineering (NME) 2024-02-23T09:53:26-08:00
BS/MS requirements (minimum 36 credits required)
Campus Environment
Capstone Help Page
Certificate in Basic Bioscience
Chair’s Office Administrative Staff
CHEM E 546: Software Engineering for Molecular Data Scientists (3 cr)
Complete the Independent Research;
Complete the molecular concentration but select from a slightly more restricted set of bioengineering senior electives;
Completion of the option results in a notation on the diploma: Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering (Data Science Option)
Completion of the option results in a notation on the diploma: Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering (Nan & Mol Eng Option)
Connect with Academic Services
Connect with us
Contact /
Contact an Academic Counselor
Copyright 2025 University of Washington &#8211; Seattle &#8211; Department of Bioengineering | All Rights Reserved | Privacy | Terms
Core courses (4 credits minimum required from either track):
Core Faculty
Course
Credits
CSE 121 or 160 plus BIOEN 217
CSE 416/STAT 416 – Introduction to Machine Learning (4 cr)
CSE 527: Computational Biology (4 cr)
CSE 546: Machine Learning (4 cr)
CSE 583: Software Development for Data Scientists (4 cr)
Current Bioengineering Ph.D. students who choose to enroll in the Data Science Option must have approval of their research advisor. Email this approval to the Graduate Program Advisor, Kalei Combs, kaleic@uw.edu . There is no additional admission procedure.
Curriculum
Data Management
Data Science Option
Data Science Option Declaration Process
Data Science students must still complete the Bioengineering Senior Electives (15 credits) and Approved Engineering Electives (9-12 credits). Data Science Courses may be used to satisfy these requirements if on departmentally approved list of approved engineering electives.
Data Visualization and Communication
Declared BIOE majors will self-identify as NME option students during Winter Quarter of junior year in BIOE.
Diploma
DIPLOMA
Donate
During the final quarter, submit a M.S. request with the Graduate School and defend the thesis.
Electives (13 credits minimum of bioengineering-related, PI-approved electives):
Emeritus Faculty
Endowed Lectures
Events
Events /
Featured Publications
Feedback and Reporting
For the General Requirements for a master’s degree, refer to the Graduate School website . Note that the Master of Science degree in Bioengineering requires a thesis. There is no teaching requirement for BS/MS students.
General requirements for the Master of Science Degree for the BS/MS Program
GENOME 540: Introduction to Computational Molecular Biology: Genome and Protein Sequence Analysis (4 cr)
Go to Top
Grades
Graduate Student Exams
Graduate students must maintain a 3.0 cumulative grade point average to maintain good standing with the Graduate School and the department. Students must earn a 2.7 or better in every course.
Home
How to declare NME
HOW TO DECLARE the Data Science option
Humans of BioE
iii. Data Science in Bioengineering: BIOEN 420, BIOEN 423, BIOEN 424, BIOEN 436, BIOEN 448, BIOEN 449, BIOEN 451, BIOEN 466, BIOEN 484, BIOEN 485, BIOEN 488, or BIOEN 492
In Memoriam
In other words, Data Science Option students must complete all of the same degree requirements as a non-option student, in addition to fulfilling courses from the above categories.
In other words, NME Option students complete all of the same degree requirements as a non-option student with additional restrictions.
Include NME content in their required senior capstone project. The proposal written in 401 will outline the NME content of the project.
Inclusivity
Innovation
Intro to Java or Intro to Python and Matlab Fundamentals Seminar
Introduction to Data Science: STAT 180/CSE 180/INFO 180, INFO 201, or INFO 370
Introductory Biology
Is Bioengineering Right for Me?
It requires a change of degree code; the Academic Counselors will change codes by the beginning of spring quarter.
JEDI Committee
Jobs /
MAB Admissions
MAB Admissions FAQ
MAB Alumni Stories
Machine Learning: CSE/STAT 416, STAT 435, or INFO 371
Main Menu
Make a Gift to UW Bioengineering
Master of Applied Bioengineering (MAB)
Master of Science (MS)
Master’s Programs
Master&#8217;s Program (MS)
Master&#8217;s Programs
Media Information
My UW
MyBioE
Name and student ID#
Name of the faculty member whose lab you will be working in for BIOEN 402.
News
News /
NME Option status affects the choice of capstone laboratory; capstone project (402 only) must have NME content.
Note: Up to six credits taken during the student’s senior year may count towards the MS degree requirements for BS/MS students. These six credits cannot have satisfied any BS degree requirements.
Once enrolled, Bioengineering PhD students have the opportunity to pursue their PhD with a Data Science option. The Data Science option prepares the next generation of thought leaders to both apply new data science methods and build new data science tools. It recognizes Bioengineering Ph.D. students whose thesis work focuses specifically on advanced data science tools and provides an advanced education to students who will push the state-of-the-art in data science methods, such as developing new machine learning methods.
Online Master of Pharmaceutical Bioengineering (PharBE)
Other Academic Opportunities
Page load link
Patents, Inventions and Startups
People
PharBE Admissions
PharBE Admissions FAQ
PharBE Alumni Stories
PhD Admissions
PhD Admissions FAQ
PHD Data Science Option
PHD Data Science Option 2024-11-13T06:49:29-08:00
PhD Program
Prerequisites to BIOEN core courses
Prior to the beginning of the spring quarter, determine project status and prepare to write the thesis.
Program on Technology Commercialization (PTC) track: BIOEN 504: PTC I (4 credits) or BIOEN 505: PTC II (4 credits)
Programming &#8211; Choose one option (4 credits)
Programming: CSE 143 or 163
Quick Links
Quicklinks
Register
Required Curriculum:
Requirements
REQUIREMENTS
Research
Research Centers
Resources
Restrictions
Scientific Computing
Search for:
Seattle Life
Sign up for eNews
Sign up for UW BioE eNews
Skip to content
Societal Implications of Data Science: SOC 225, BH 201, BH 311, or BH 444
Specific Course Requirements for the Master of Science degree for the BS/MS Program (effective Autumn 2012 or later)
Statement that you and the faculty member have discussed your project having nano or molecular content. (This can be a general agreement at this point; you will work out the details during BIOEN 401.)
Statement that you plan to complete the option in NME
Statistics (3 credits):
Statistics and Machine Learning
Student Resources
Student Stories
Students enrolled in this option can expect to interact with students in similar programs in genome sciences, statistics, oceanography, computer science & engineering and astronomy. The Data Science option is an official UW degree option which will be part of your degree title and appear on your transcript.
Students file for graduation at the beginning of Autumn Quarter, senior year. This is the last moment to withdraw from the Data Science option.
Students file for graduation at the beginning of Autumn Quarter, senior year. This is the last moment to withdraw from the NME option.
Students must complete 9 thesis research credits of BIOEN 700 prior to MS graduation
Subscribe to BioE PharBE email updates
Take NME 220 for 4 of their 9 required approved engineering elective credits;
Take NME 321 and 421 (seminars) for 2 of their 8 general University elective credits;
The Bachelor of Science in Bioengineering program offered by UW Bioengineering is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET. Learn more
The capstone proposal written in BIOEN 401, Spring Quarter of junior year, will outline the NME content of the project. Therefore students will not be able to declare NME after the beginning of Spring Quarter of junior year.
The Data Science Option in BIOE is designed to fit within the existing BS BIOE degree requirements . Data Science students may complete either Capstone option: Independent Research or Team Design. Data Science students must complete specific Data Science courses from the follow categories:
The Data Science Option overlays our standard course requirements. In other words, students must satisfy the universal PhD Curriculum requirements, in addition to the Data Science Option requirements. This may impose some extra constraints on course selection. However, note that some of the required data science courses may substitute for required electives.
The Four-iers of BIOEN Podcast
The NME Option in BIOE is designed to fit within the existing BS BIOE degree requirements . Specifically, NME students:
Three courses totaling 9-14 credits from three of the five categories listed below: Scientific Computing, Statistics and Machine Learning, Big Data and Image Processing, Data Visualization, and Data Science. Each category listed includes approved courses offered within Bioengineering and other departments on the UW Seattle campus. The large number of approved courses reflects both the breadth of the data science field, and the fact that space in non-Bioengineering courses is sometimes limited.
Thursday December 4, 6-7pm PST
To declare the Data Science Option, email the Academic Counselor with the following information, by the end of Winter Quarter, junior year:
To declare the NME Option, email the Academic Counselors with the following information, by the end of Winter Quarter, junior year:
To keep track of your coursework, please see the Undergraduate Academic Counselor for a planning sheet and quarterly check-ins. The degree provides two track options (the Bioengineering Professional Series (BPS) and the Program on Technology Commercialization (PTC)). The degree requires 20 course credits, plus research credits. Petitions to substitute or waive courses, are not encouraged.
Toggle Navigation
Topic
TOTAL
Tuition and Financial Information
Undergraduate Admissions
Undergraduate Degree Requirements
Undergraduate Program
Undergraduate Sample 4-Year Schedule
UW BioE Culture
UW BioE History
UW BioE Research Themes
UW College of Engineering
UW Culture
UW Home
UW School of Medicine
Wednesday December 17, 5:30-6:30pm PST
Zoom Sessions
