Owner: uw-seattle-informatics:pathway:biomedical-and-health-informatics-option
Source: https://ischool.uw.edu/academics/informatics/curriculum
Title: Informatics Curriculum | Information School | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Academics
[Supplemental official source] Degree Planning
12:30-1:30 PM
2:00-3:30 PM
Advising & Support
any two courses at the INFO 35x-level.
Apply to graduate in autumn of senior year
Apr 17
Apr 22
Autumn
Begin taking major electives/degree option classes spring of junior year
Biomedical and Health Informatics Option: BIME 300, BIME 435, INFO 468, INFO 478.
CALMA Round Table: Practical Perspectives on the Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Library, Archives, and Museum Careers
Capstone (8-credits): Students complete a culminating experience.
Capstone Projects
Choose between CSE 123: Introduction to Computer Programming III (4 cr), CSE 143:
Client-Side Development (5 cr)
Complete a summer internship (recommended)
Completing an option is not required. Students may declare a degree option at any time, but typically file the necessary change of major forms after their spring quarter, so that they are correctly listed in the system prior to applying for graduation the following autumn.
Computer Programming II (5 cr) and CSE 163: Intermediate Data Programming (4 cr)
Current UW Students: Junior year course schedule example
Data Science Option: INFO 370, INFO 371, INFO 430, INFO 474, or other approved data science elective
Data Science Option: INFO 370, INFO 371, INFO 430, INFO 474, or other data science electives.
Databases & Data Modeling (5 cr)
Declaring an option
Design Methods (4 cr)
Electives (12-15 credits)
Events
Growing up in a small town in Eastern Washington, Diego Licea aspired to attend college and set his sights on the University of Washington.“I'd heard it was a challenging school to get into,” he said. “If it wasn't UW, I felt like...
Indigenous data has a history of bad management from non-Natives, says UW Information School Assistant Professor Sandy Littletree (Eastern Shoshone/Navajo). Library collections may include sacred songs, ceremonies and stories that were...
INFO 201
INFO 300
INFO 330
INFO 340
INFO 351
INFO 360
INFO 380
INFO 380: Product and Information Systems Management
INFO 490: Project Capstone I and INFO 491: Project Capstone II (8 credits total)
INFO Elective
Informatics student blends history, technology and service
Information and Society (8-10 credits): Students learn to analyze the impacts of information technologies on individuals and society as a whole.
Information Ethics & Policy (5 cr)
Information Systems Analysis & Design (5 cr)
News
Pick Your Path Through MSIM
Professor&#039;s work helps to advance Indigenous librarianship
Read more
Request more information
Research Methods in Informatics (5 credits)
Resources:
Sample course plans
Sign up for graduation ceremonies (iSchool Convocation and UW Commencement) and order graduation materials
Spring
Students may also declare a degree option in either Data Science or Biomedical and Health Informatics to have that phrase added to their transcript. Completing an option requires taking four electives from within that option’s focus area:
Students take a range of Informatics electives (other upper-division INFO courses). Courses outside of INFO can also count as electives; please reach out to informatics@uw.edu for more information. Students may also complete a degree option in either Data Science or Biomedical and Health Informatics by choosing electives in the Data Science or Health & Well-Being focus areas respectively. Completing either option requires 4 electives:
Take the Capstone course sequence: INFO 490 & INFO 491 and present at spring Capstone event. Alternatively, you can complete a research Capstone. See the Informatics Capstone page for details.
Technical Foundations of Informatics (5 cr)
The curriculum plans below can be used to help you plan the remainder of your time in the major. The course schedule reflected on this page is typical of the path students will follow to complete their degree, but individuals may choose to pursue their own path to degree completion.
Tuesday, April 14, 2026
Upcoming Info Sessions
Videos: Alumni at Work
Watch : A breakdown of the courses you need to take to complete the Informatics major and a bachelor's degree at the University of Washington.
Wednesday, April 8, 2026
Winter
Zoom / Online
