Owner: uw-seattle-statistics:pathway:this-track-emphasizes-the-link-between-statistics-and-computer-science
Source: https://stat.uw.edu/academics/undergraduate/statistics-bs/major
Title: Major Requirements | University of Washington Department of Statistics

[Supplemental official source] Double Majors
[Supplemental official source] Honors Program
[Supplemental official source] Statistics B.S. Tracks
a detailed plan indicating which of the options they would like to pursue to obtain Departmental honors. In particular, according to the option chosen, the following will be needed:
a list of relevant experiences (e.g., internships, projects)
A minimum GPA of 2.0 and cumulative GPA of 2.5 is required in all courses used to satisfy major requirements.
a statement of purpose that discusses their career goals
Academic ability as measured by GPA, factoring in difficulty and breadth of courses completed, frequency of incomplete courses, and number of repeated courses
Academic Advising
Academics
Accessibility
Admissions
All applicants will be evaluated using the following criteria:
All other sections in this page refer to students who will enroll in 2024 and after.
Any double majors in CSE/Stat (independently of track) can request that 2C credits of ENGR 321 (engineering internship) or CSE 301 (CSE Internship) be used instead of STAT 496 (capstone requirement). This puts these courses on the same footing as STAT 497 (statistics internship). Approval of this request is not automatic for any of the three courses, as it is subject to review by Statistics advising on a case-by-case basis (to make sure that there is enough statistics practicum in the internship). These credits never double count.
Applied Statistics : this track allows students to explore the use of statistical methods in specific scientific domains.
Applied Statistics Track
As part of their application, students will be asked to submit:
At the end of your major, this is how your academic curriculum will look:
Be boundless
Breadth requirements (track specific): 18-20 credits
Capstone project: STAT 496. Students can petition to have 2 credits of STAT 497 (Undergraduate Statistics Internship) or ENGR 321 (Undergraduate Engineering Internship) substitute for STAT 496.
Community
Computing: STAT 302 and either CSE 163 (strongly recommended) or CSE 123.
Contact Us
Continuation and Honesty Policy
Core requirements (all tracks): 37 credits
Courses
Courses for non-majors
Coursework plus ePortfolio option : At the application stage, students must: (1) indicate which graduate classes they are planning to take and when; (2) outline how they are planning to fulfill the research requirement. If the students plan to use DRP credits to complete the research requirement in this track, we expect them to have completed at least one credit before applying. If, on the other hand, they are going to use a small project with a faculty member or STAT 495, the name and email of the sponsor/mentor along with a brief description of the project must be submitted at this stage; (3) Include a plan for the ePortfolio and include a a github page containing an initial draft of the ePortfolio with at least two completed projects.
CSE 332 (satisfies required elective for STAT DS students and a core requirement for all CSE majors).
CSE 442 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for either a CSE DS requirement or a CSE elective)
CSE 444 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for either a CSE DS requirement or a CSE elective)
CSE/Stat double majors can double count the following courses to satisfy requirements in both programs:
CSE/Stat double majors can either take CSE 446 (Machine Learning) or STAT 435 (Introduction to Statistical Machine Learning). Either class satisfies requirements for both programs (it can be double counted).
CSE/Stat double majors must complete both CSE 312 and MATH/STAT 394 to satisfy core requirements in each program. While there is some overlap between both courses, it is not enough to justify counting CSE 312 toward our probability requirement, and vice versa.
Data Science : this track emphasizes the link between statistics and computer science
Data Science Track
Data visualization: One of STAT 451 (highly recommended), CSE 412, CSE 442, HCDE 411, INFO 474.
Databases: One of CSE 414, CSE 444, or INFO 330.
Double Major and Double Degree
Double major in CSE (B.S.) and Statistics (B.S.)
Double major in Mathematics (B.S) and Statistics (B.S.)
Double Majors
Either MATH 300, MATH 327 and MATH 424, which satisfies three core requirements of the Mathematics B.S. and is one of the breadth sequences for the mathematical statistics track of the Statistics B.S,
Electives : The list of electives for students who enrolled before or in 2023 can be found here .
ePortfolio
Ethics: Either STAT 303 (strongly recommended) or SOC 225 or INFO 351.
Evaluation
FAQs
Footer menu
General electives
Graduate
Home
Honors Program
Honors Projects Archive (NA)
How to apply
If you are interested in pursuing a degree in Statistics, in addition to the introductory courses needed to apply (STAT 311 or STAT 390, and STAT 394), typically taken during the sophomore year, you will be taking more advanced statistics classes focused on mathematical theory, computational methods or applications according to the track you choose. Here is a flow chart based on courses and interests that can help you make a decision on which track is more suitable for you.
In Spring 2024, as a valid elective we also consider AMATH 490 (Mathematical Theory of Information Entropy and Data).
In summary, the total number of courses double counted for a CSE DS/STAT DS double major:
In This Section
Internships & CPT
List of electives
Lower division courses : 19-30 credits (depending on whether the regular or honor calculus sequence is selected, and on whether the student places in CSE 121, 122, or 123).
Lower division courses: 15-18 credits (9-12 for the calculus/linear algebra sequence, depending on whether the regular or honor calculus sequence is selected, plus 3 credits for MATH 224).
Major Requirements
MATH 224 also satisfies lower-division requirements for both the Mathematics and the Statistics B.S. It can be double counted.
MATH 318 satisfies elective requirements for both majors and can be double counted.
MATH/STAT 394 satisfies a core requirement for the Statistics B.S. and an elective requirement for the Mathematics BS. It can be double counted.
Math/Stat double majors can double count one (and only one) of the following two nine-credi, three-course sequences:
Mathematical statistics : this track emphasizes the mathematical foundations of statistical methods.
Mathematical Statistics Track
Mathematics: MATH 208 and MATH 224. MATH 208 is waved if MATH 136 was taken.
Motivation.
Non-Degree Enrollment
One elective from the computing list.
One of the following three-course sequences: (a) MATH 300, MATH 327 and MATH 424, (b) MATH/STAT 395, MATH/STAT 491, and either MATH/STAT 492 or MATH/STAT 493.
Or MATH/STAT 395, MATH/STAT 491 and either MATH/STAT 492 or MATH/STAT 493, which satisfies three elective requirements for the Mathematics B.S. and is one of the other breadth sequences for the mathematical statistics track of the Statistics B.S.
Quality and feasibility of the submitted plan.
Relevant work and life experience.
SOC 225 or STAT 303 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for the CSE DS track).
Starting in Autumn 2024, the undergraduate program is organized around three tracks:
Statistical and machine learning methodology: STAT 423, STAT 424, and STAT 435.
Statistical theory: STAT 341 and STAT 342.
Statistics B.S.
Statistics B.S. tracks
Statistics B.S. Tracks
Statistics Minor
Students intending to pursue a double major in CSE/Stat should take CSE 121-122-123 rather than CSE 160-163 to satisfy their intro programing requirements in the Statistics B.S. The CSE 121-122-123 sequence satisfies lower-division requirements for both majors.
Students who will enroll in 2024 and after
The Department of Statistics welcomes students who are willing to pursue a double major or a double degree. Juggling the requirements of two majors can be very challenging. While you can find general information on UW’s requirements for double majors and double degrees at this link , on this page we include details that should facilitate students who are pursuing a double major or double degree with Statistics. In particular, the Department of Statistics is working with other departments at UW to create preapproved paths which include courses that can and cannot double count towards the major. Please note that this is only a suggestion and students do not have to follow our pre-approved path.
The MATH 124-125-126-208 (or, alternatively, MATH 134-135-135) sequence satisfies lower-division mathematics requirements for both majors.
The MATH 124-125-126-208 (or, alternatively, MATH 134-135-135) sequence satisfies lower-division mathematics requirements for both majors. It can be double counted.
The Mathematical S tatistics track provides a solid foundation for graduate studies in statistics and closely-related fields. The Data Science track emphasizes the link between statistics and computer science and it is perfect for those interested in the computational aspects of statistics, along with database management and coding. The Applied Statistics track is intended for students to explore the use of statistical methods in specific scientific domains. It is intended for those who have an interest in a specific applied discipline and would like to have a deep understanding of Statistics to be able to apply in their domain of choice. Students interested in pursuing graduate degrees in other applied disciplines, such as E conomics or other social sciences, may benefit from completing a statistics major in the Applied Statisti cs track.
their transcripts,
Thesis
Thesis option : Students who choose the thesis option must already have an advisor when they apply to the Honors program. The student and their advisor must agree on a project and submit a title and a project proposal of 300-600 words as part of their application. Identifying an advisor and agreeing on a project with their advisor is the student’s responsibility.
Three electives, each at least 3 credits each, chosen from either the general electives list or the computing electives list.
Three electives, each at least 3 credits, each from either the general electives list or the computing electives list .
Three interdisciplinary courses that form a coherent program (see "Interdisciplinary electives" below).
Transfer Credit Evaluations
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington
Upper division courses: 19 credits (CSE 446/STAT 435: 4 credits, SOC 225/STAT 303: 3 credits, CSE 442: 4 credits, CSE 444: 4 credits, CSE 332: 4 credits).
Upper division courses: up to 15 credits (3 credits for 394, 9 credits for either MATH 300-327-424 or MATH/STAT 395-491-492/3, and 3 credits for MATH 318).
We recommend taking the data science track to students who are willing to double major with CSE. Below we provide some parameters for managing course overlap and for double counting courses across both majors under that assumption:
We recommend taking the mathematical statistics track to students who are willing to double major with Mathematics. Below we provide some parameters for managing course overlap and for double counting courses across both majors under that assumption:
