Owner: uw-seattle-applied-mathematics:pathway:computational-finance-and-risk-management-data-science-option
Source: https://amath.washington.edu/undergraduate-major-applied-mathematics
Title: Undergraduate Major: Applied Mathematics | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] B.S. in Applied Mathematics: Data Science Option
[Supplemental official source] B.S. in Computational Finance & Risk Management: Data Science Option
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
1. one of AMATH 481 or CSE 163 (4-5 credits)
1) Methods of Applied Mathematics: Minimum two courses from AMATH 401, AMATH 402, AMATH 403
2. one of AMATH 482, CSE 414, or INFO 430 (4-5 credits)
2) Modeling: Minimum two courses from AMATH 342, AMATH 383, AMATH 422, AMATH 423
3. AMATH 483 (5 credits)
3. AMATH 483, CFRM 410, and CFRM 420 (11 credits)
3) Computing and Data Sciences: Minimum two courses from AMATH 481, AMATH 482, AMATH 483, CFRM 410, CFRM 420, CFRM 421
4. one of CFRM 421, CSE 416/STAT 416, or STAT 435 (4 credits)
4) Additional courses from the above lists to bring the elective minimum total to 27 credits.
5. INFO 351 (4 credits) or SOC 225 (3 or 5 credits)
About
Additional information for prospective students
Additional policies, useful links, and resources may be found here !
Admissions
Admissions: Incoming Freshmen , Transfers , International Students
Advising
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Update
AMATH Course Catalog
Applied & Computational Math Sciences (ACMS)
Applied Math Tutors
Applied mathematics incorporates interdisciplinary study in the physical, engineering, and biological sciences. We provide dynamic and engaging training that is especially strong in mathematical methods (scientific computing, data science, etc.) and in application areas (mathematical biology, health sciences, nonlinear waves and coherent structures, mathematical finance, data analysis and climate modeling).
Applied Mathematics: Data Science Option
Applied Mathematics: Data Science Option | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington
B.S. in Applied Mathematics
B.S. in Applied Mathematics: Data Science Option
B.S. in Computational Finance & Risk Management
B.S. in Computational Finance & Risk Management: Data Science Option
B.S. to M.S. Pathway
Boeing Colloquium Series
Box 353925
Calendar
Career Preparation : students will experience a broad curriculum to learn high level mathematics in preparation for dynamic careers in a variety of fields and to become leaders in a society that exhibits increasing demands for competence in communication, computation, and quantitative analysis.
Careers
Centers & Institutes
CFRM Course Catalog
College of Arts & Sciences
Computational Finance & Risk Management: Data Science Option
Computational Finance & Risk Management: Data Science Option | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington
Computational Finance and Risk Management (CFRM) is the application of advanced mathematical, statistical, and computational methods to solving quantitative finance problems. Students will investigate financial topics and explore the business world rationally, creatively, and critically, in a quantitative way.
Computing: AMATH 301 (4 credits)
Computing: AMATH 301, CFRM 425 (7 credits)
Conferences
Contact an advisor
Contact Us
Courses
Current & Upcoming Courses
Current AMATH majors can petition to enroll in the Data Science option during the Autumn and Spring admission cycles.
Current CFRM majors can petition to enroll in the Data Science option during the Autumn and Spring admission cycles.
Data Science (17-19 credits):
Data Science (23-25 credits):
Degree requirements:
Degree Requirements:
Department of Applied Mathematics
Directories
Electives (minimum 27 credits)
Faculty
Faculty Books
Fax: (206) 685-1440
Frequently Asked Questions
Full Directory
Funding & Financial Support
General Education requirements for College of Arts and Sciences students may be found here .
Give now
Graduate
Graduate Student Guide
Graduation Celebration
History
Home
How do you major in AMATH with a Data Science option?
How do you major in AMATH?
How do you major in CFRM with a Data Science option?
How do you meet with a departmental major advisor?
How do you meet with an departmental major advisor?
info@amath.washington.edu
Intranet
Introductory Applied Mathematics: AMATH 351, AMATH 352, AMATH 353 (9 credits)
Journal Clubs
Lewis Hall 201
LinkedIn
M.S. Students
Mailing List
Main menu
Maps
Master's Programs
Mathematics : MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136) (15 credits)
Mathematics: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136) (15 credits)
Menu
Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major.
Minimum 54-58 credits:
Minimum 54-59 credits:
Minimum 63-67 credits:
Minor in Applied Mathematics
Minor in Computational Finance
MyUW
News & Events
News Feed
Newsletter
Our Awards
Our department is the top ranked Applied Mathematics Department in the country, according to The National Research Council, tied with Princeton for #1.
Our program prepares students for dynamic careers in a variety of fiel ds.
Our students learn to apply math to problems that society is facing today in the physical, engineering, biological and health sciences, industry, and many additional application areas.
Past Courses
People
Ph.D. Dissertations
Ph.D. Program
Ph.D. Students
Phone: (206) 543-5493
Please visit our Admissions page for important details such as the application procedure and deadlines, admissions statistics, plus dates for upcoming info sessions!
Policies & Resources
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Quantitative Finance: CFRM 405, CFRM 410, CFRM 415, CFRM 420 (12 credits)
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Requirements for Data Science Option: (20-24 credits)
Requirements for Data Science Option: (26-30 credits)
Research
Research Areas
Research Groups & Labs
Resources
Scholarships & Financial Aid: students can find a number of financial aid opportunities through the Student Financial Aid Office . With the Husky Promise , the UW guarantees to cover the full cost of tuition and standard fees for qualified students who otherwise could not afford to attend.
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-3925
Seminar in Applied Mathematics
Seminars
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Societies
Society and Data (3-5 credits):
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Honor Code
Students may apply for the AMATH: Data Science option at the time of their application to the major.
Students may apply for the CFRM: Data Science option at the time of their application to the major.
Support Applied Math
Support Us
Terms
The Data Science option in Applied Mathematics provides students with training in data science methods and practices through the study of statistical modeling, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and optimization , among other aspects of applied mathematics .
The Data Science option in CFRM provides students with training in data science methods and practices through the study of statistical modeling, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and optimization, among other aspects of applied mathematics.
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Major: Applied Mathematics
Undergraduate Major: Applied Mathematics | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington
University of Washington
User account menu
Washington
What is Applied Mathematics with a Data Science option?
What is Applied Mathematics?
What is Computational Finance & Risk Management with a Data Science option?
Why study Applied Mathematics (AMATH)?
You are here
YouTube
