Owner: uw-seattle-statistics:pathway:applied-statistics-track
Source: https://stat.uw.edu/academics/undergraduate/statistics-bs/major
Title: Major Requirements | University of Washington Department of Statistics

[Supplemental official source] Honors Program
a detailed plan indicating which of the options they would like to pursue to obtain Departmental honors. In particular, according to the option chosen, the following will be needed:
a list of relevant experiences (e.g., internships, projects)
a statement of purpose that discusses their career goals
Academic ability as measured by GPA, factoring in difficulty and breadth of courses completed, frequency of incomplete courses, and number of repeated courses
Academic Advising
Accessibility
Admissions
All applicants will be evaluated using the following criteria:
As part of their application, students will be asked to submit:
Be boundless
Community
Continuation and Honesty Policy
Courses
Courses for non-majors
Coursework plus ePortfolio option : At the application stage, students must: (1) indicate which graduate classes they are planning to take and when; (2) outline how they are planning to fulfill the research requirement. If the students plan to use DRP credits to complete the research requirement in this track, we expect them to have completed at least one credit before applying. If, on the other hand, they are going to use a small project with a faculty member or STAT 495, the name and email of the sponsor/mentor along with a brief description of the project must be submitted at this stage; (3) Include a plan for the ePortfolio and include a a github page containing an initial draft of the ePortfolio with at least two completed projects.
Double Majors
ePortfolio
Evaluation
Example of what your coursework will look like
FAQs
Footer menu
For more information on the requirements of a thesis project, please click here .
Graduate
Honors Program
Honors Projects Archive (NA)
How to apply
In This Section
Internships & CPT
LING 421 R for Linguists (5)
LING 471 Computational Methods for Linguists (5)
LING 472 Introduction to Computational Linguistics (5) (prereq: 400 + either LING 461 or CSE 311)
LING 473 Basics for Computational Linguistics (3) (Prerequisite: CSE 326; STAT 391)
Major Requirements
Motivation.
Non-Degree Enrollment
Quality and feasibility of the submitted plan.
Relevant work and life experience.
STAT 311 and STAT 394 are among the pre-requisites for admission and therefore they are usually taken early in the sophomore year (Plan A), so that students can apply to the Stat major in Spring of their sophomore year. Once students enroll in the major, they should start working on the core major requirements by taking STAT 341 and STAT 342, which represent the statistical theory requirements, serve as pre-requisites for other core courses and give the foundations to understand Machine Learning classes (such as STAT 435) and other breadth requirements classes. STAT 302 and STAT 303 provide, respectively, the foundations of statistical computing and an understanding of the ethical implications of statistical decision-making algorithms. We expect students to take them either during their junior or their senior year. The senior year should be mainly dedicated to the capstone project and to electives; the specific courses will largely depend on the selected track and may require pre-requisites.
Statistics B.S.
Statistics B.S. Tracks
Statistics Minor
Students who have AP calculus and CS credits from high-school may be eligible to apply for admission to the Statistics major in their freshmen year (see Plan B).
The following flow-charts will help you understand the STAT 300 level courses and their pre-requisites. For a full list of courses please see this page .
their transcripts,
Thesis
Thesis option : Students who choose the thesis option must already have an advisor when they apply to the Honors program. The student and their advisor must agree on a project and submit a title and a project proposal of 300-600 words as part of their application. Identifying an advisor and agreeing on a project with their advisor is the student’s responsibility.
Transfer Credit Evaluations
Undergraduate
University of Washington
