Owner: uw-seattle-german
Source: https://german.washington.edu/german-studies
Title: German Studies | Department of German Studies | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] B.A. in German Studies: Cultural Studies
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
15 additional credits from any combination of the following courses, or additional courses from the list above. No more than 10 credits at the 200-level.
2 courses from 400-level literature offerings (411,421,422,423,497, etc)
2 courses from: German 301, 302, 303 (or equivalent)
50-51 credits
51 credits in all
About
Academic Placement
Additional Completion Requirements
Additional completion requirements specified below
Additional Programs
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Advising
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Update
Application Instructions
As part of the degree, students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in German. Because German 101, 201, and 301 are available only in the fall, students should sign up to begin as early as possible. If you have previous experience studying German, see our information on placement tests . An accelerated first-year German course is available in the summer. For additional information, please contact the German Language Program Director Klaus Brandl .
B.A. in German Studies
B.A. in German Studies: Cultural Studies
Box 353130
Calendar
Careers
Choose from many offerings in:
College of Arts & Sciences
Completion Requirements
Contact Us
Courses
Credit Transfer
Culture
Cultures of Extinction
Current and Upcoming
Degree Requirements
Denny 359 Calendar
Denny Hall 360
Department of German Studies
Departmental Resources
Direct exchange with German universities in Tübingen and Heidelberg.
Directories
Dissertations
Diversity (DIV) Courses
Diversity & Equity
Diversity News
Doctor of Philosophy
Elective Courses (20 credits)
Every quarter we also offer English-language courses that count toward elective credit, such as:
Exchanges
Facebook
Faculty
FAQ
Fax: (206) 685-9063
Featured Courses
Fellowships and Tuition
Fields of Interest
German 203 (or equivalent)
GERMAN 203, GERMAN 311, GERMAN 322
German 311 (Introduction to Literary Studies)
German 401 (or equivalent)
German Club
German Studies
German Studies | Department of German Studies | University of Washington
German Studies: Cultural Studies
German Studies: Cultural Studies | Department of German Studies | University of Washington
Goethe Zertifikat Tests
Graduate
Graduate Students
Home
Honors
If you have questions about German Studies programs or coursework, you can contact our Undergraduate Programs Coordinator, Jason Groves, jagroves@uw.edu
If you have questions about German Studies programs or coursework, you can contact our Undergraduate Programs Coordinator, Jason Groves, jagroves@uw.edu .
Instagram
Internships
Language
Language Courses
Language Program
Like the B.A. in German Studies, the B.A. in German Studies: Cultural Studies places the artistic and intellectual traditions of German-speaking countries and their people in a revealing interdisciplinary context. Students investigate the language and cultures of these countries using approaches from linguistics, theater and performance studies, film and media studies, philosophy, Jewish studies, gender studies, queer theory, eco-criticism, environmental studies, and more. They can build intermediate to advanced proficiency in the German language through study abroad , internships , and an optional capstone intensive language course, with the option to pursue departmental honors . By drawing on these diverse fields, students investigate the two-way influence that German-speaking countries and the world have had on each other. Graduates use their skills in verbal interpretation and analysis, critical thinking, and solving complex problems to succeed in diverse roles in the public and private sectors.
Linguistics
Linguistics: GERMAN 452/LING 415
LinkedIn
Literature
Literature and Culture: GERMAN 210, GERMAN 293, GERMAN 295/JEW ST 295, GERMAN 300, GERMAN 322, GERMAN 323, GERMAN 351, GERMAN 352, GERMAN 355, GERMAN 371, GERMAN 398, GERMAN 399, GERMAN 499
Lowenfeld Collection
Main menu
Main Office Hours: Mon., Wed., Fri. 1 to 5 p.m. and Tu., Thu. 9 to 12 p.m. Please email uwgerman@uw.edu any time.
Make a Gift
Many other study abroad opportunities are available through the Study Abroad Office .
Maps
Master of Arts
Max Kade Professor
Medieval Literature and Culture: Adapting Arthur
Menu
Minimum 2.0 grade in every upper-division German course counted toward the major. Minimum 2.50 cumulative GPA for all German courses counted toward the major.
Minor in German Studies
More ways to connect
MyUW
Neurath Donation
News & Events
Newsletter
On Campus & Beyond
Option specific credits: 10 credits from a list of approved courses or additional 300- and 400-level courses from major requirements #2 and #3 shown above.
Organizations and Links
Other: GERMAN 446 (5 credits max.), GERMAN 447 (5 credits max.)
Overview
People
Phone: (206) 543-4580
Placement Test
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Projects
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Refer to this link for list of approved courses outside of the department.
Required Courses (31 credits)
Research
Resources
Resources & Opportunities
Scholarships
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-3130
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Spring in Vienna
Spring in Vienna (a well-integrated program with a cohort of fellow UW students every spring quarter; application in November);
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Experiences
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Summer in Berlin
Summer Program
Support German Studies
Support Us
Sympathy for the Devil: The Rhetoric of Compassion
Teaching Assistantships
Tentative Course Schedules
Terms
The B.A. in German Studies: Cultural Studies provides students with intermediate to advanced competency in spoken and written German, analytical skills, intercultural competence, and the ability to work across disciplines. This credential emphasizes cultural studies alongside language study and promotes multi-disciplinarity by making it easier for students already pursuing a major in a complimentary field to also complete a degree in German Studies. German 401 is not required for this degree option. Up to 10 credits from a list of approved courses in other departments can be applied towards this degree.
The German Studies department directly sponsors two study abroad programs:
The Human Animal
The Layered City: Excavating Diversity in the Metropolis Berlin
The major in German places the artistic and intellectual traditions of German-speaking countries and their people in a revealing interdisciplinary context. Students investigate the language and cultures of these countries using approaches from linguistics, theater and performance studies, film and media studies, philosophy, Jewish studies, gender studies, queer theory, eco-criticism, environmental studies, and more. They build advanced proficiency in the German language through study abroad , internships , and a capstone intensive language course, with the option to pursue departmental honors . By drawing on these diverse fields, students investigate the two-way influence that German-speaking countries and the world have had on each other. Graduates use their skills in verbal interpretation and analysis, critical thinking, and solving complex problems to succeed in diverse roles in the public and private sectors.
The Otherworldly: Fairy Tales and the Environmental Imagination
The Queerness of Love
The Tele-Novel: Seriality and Visual Storytelling
Transcultural Approaches to Europe Lecture
Twitter
Two 400-level courses in literature and culture chosen from the following: GERMAN 411, GERMAN 421, GERMAN 422, GERMAN 423, GERMAN 490, GERMAN 493, GERMAN 494, GERMAN 495 (10 credits)
Undergraduate
University of Washington
User account menu
UW Resources
uwgerman@uw.edu
Vienna 1900: The Naked Truth: Crisis and Renewal
Vision Statement
Visiting Scholars
Washington
We work individually with students to make study abroad opportunities count toward gaining credit toward their degrees at German, Austrian, and Swiss universities. Study Abroad is strongly encouraged, but not required for the degree.
When students test out of language courses (German 203, 301, 302, 303, 401) due to prior competency in German, these requirements become electives.
Why learn German?
Witchcraft. From History to Pop Culture
You are here
You may graduate with departmental honors on your degree by completing ad-hoc honors projects in conjunction with four different courses.
