Owner: uw-seattle-statistics:pathway:data-science-track
Source: https://stat.uw.edu/academics/undergraduate/statistics-bs/major
Title: Major Requirements | University of Washington Department of Statistics

[Supplemental official source] Courses for non-majors
[Supplemental official source] Double Majors
Academic Advising
Academics
Accessibility
Admissions
Any double majors in CSE/Stat (independently of track) can request that 2C credits of ENGR 321 (engineering internship) or CSE 301 (CSE Internship) be used instead of STAT 496 (capstone requirement). This puts these courses on the same footing as STAT 497 (statistics internship). Approval of this request is not automatic for any of the three courses, as it is subject to review by Statistics advising on a case-by-case basis (to make sure that there is enough statistics practicum in the internship). These credits never double count.
Be boundless
Community
Computing: STAT 302 and either CSE 163 (strongly recommended) or CSE 123.
Contact Us
Continuation and Honesty Policy
Courses
Courses for non-majors
CSE 332 (satisfies required elective for STAT DS students and a core requirement for all CSE majors).
CSE 442 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for either a CSE DS requirement or a CSE elective)
CSE 444 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for either a CSE DS requirement or a CSE elective)
CSE/Stat double majors can double count the following courses to satisfy requirements in both programs:
CSE/Stat double majors can either take CSE 446 (Machine Learning) or STAT 435 (Introduction to Statistical Machine Learning). Either class satisfies requirements for both programs (it can be double counted).
CSE/Stat double majors must complete both CSE 312 and MATH/STAT 394 to satisfy core requirements in each program. While there is some overlap between both courses, it is not enough to justify counting CSE 312 toward our probability requirement, and vice versa.
Data Visualization
Diversity
Double Major and Double Degree
Double major in CSE (B.S.) and Statistics (B.S.)
Double major in Mathematics (B.S) and Statistics (B.S.)
Double Majors
Either MATH 300, MATH 327 and MATH 424, which satisfies three core requirements of the Mathematics B.S. and is one of the breadth sequences for the mathematical statistics track of the Statistics B.S,
Example of what your coursework will look like
FAQs
Footer menu
Graduate
Home
Honors Program
If you are not a Statistics major, but you would like (or you need) to take Statistics, please note that the Statistics Department offers several classes geared towards non majors who would like to understand statistics at different levels, either at a more conceptual and introductory level, or in its computational aspects or as a tool to gain visualize and communicate data and results.
In summary, the total number of courses double counted for a CSE DS/STAT DS double major:
In This Section
Internships & CPT
Introductory classes
Jobs
LING 421 R for Linguists (5)
LING 471 Computational Methods for Linguists (5)
LING 472 Introduction to Computational Linguistics (5) (prereq: 400 + either LING 461 or CSE 311)
LING 473 Basics for Computational Linguistics (3) (Prerequisite: CSE 326; STAT 391)
Lower division courses : 19-30 credits (depending on whether the regular or honor calculus sequence is selected, and on whether the student places in CSE 121, 122, or 123).
Lower division courses: 15-18 credits (9-12 for the calculus/linear algebra sequence, depending on whether the regular or honor calculus sequence is selected, plus 3 credits for MATH 224).
Machine Learning classes
Major Requirements
MATH 224 also satisfies lower-division requirements for both the Mathematics and the Statistics B.S. It can be double counted.
MATH 318 satisfies elective requirements for both majors and can be double counted.
MATH/STAT 394 satisfies a core requirement for the Statistics B.S. and an elective requirement for the Mathematics BS. It can be double counted.
Math/Stat double majors can double count one (and only one) of the following two nine-credi, three-course sequences:
MyUW
Non-Degree Enrollment
Non-majors
Or MATH/STAT 395, MATH/STAT 491 and either MATH/STAT 492 or MATH/STAT 493, which satisfies three elective requirements for the Mathematics B.S. and is one of the other breadth sequences for the mathematical statistics track of the Statistics B.S.
Privacy
SOC 225 or STAT 303 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for the CSE DS track).
STAT 220, STAT/CSSS/SOC 221, and STAT 311 are by far our most popular (and widely applicable) introductory courses. As illustrated in the flowchart below, STAT 311 is geared to students aiming for more quantitative disciplines: STAT, BUSINESS, ECON, and INFO among others. (It is, however, NOT intended for students in E.N.G.R., MATH, A.C.M.S. as these disciplines require STAT 390. Students should check requirements with their major advisors.) On the other hand, STAT 220 and STAT 221 focus on statistical literacy and logical thinking and are geared towards the non-mathematical student. The aim is to develop quantitative problem-solving skills as well as build a statistical vocabulary. If your interests are in the social sciences, and you would otherwise take STAT 220, consider STAT 221 instead.
STAT 311 and STAT 394 are among the pre-requisites for admission and therefore they are usually taken early in the sophomore year (Plan A), so that students can apply to the Stat major in Spring of their sophomore year. Once students enroll in the major, they should start working on the core major requirements by taking STAT 341 and STAT 342, which represent the statistical theory requirements, serve as pre-requisites for other core courses and give the foundations to understand Machine Learning classes (such as STAT 435) and other breadth requirements classes. STAT 302 and STAT 303 provide, respectively, the foundations of statistical computing and an understanding of the ethical implications of statistical decision-making algorithms. We expect students to take them either during their junior or their senior year. The senior year should be mainly dedicated to the capstone project and to electives; the specific courses will largely depend on the selected track and may require pre-requisites.
STAT 416 is a popular choice among non-Statistics students who major in a Data Science track since it is a way to satisfy the machine learning requirements.
STAT/CSE 180 is a relatively recent alternative which introduces the essential elements of data science. It is a good choice for students looking for a hybrid between a computer course and a statistics course. It is not intended for students who have taken statistics courses such as STAT 220, 221, 311 or 390 or programming courses like CSE 160.
Statistics B.S.
Statistics B.S. Tracks
Statistics is also the art of story-telling through the use of data, and what could be better than using graphical visualizations to do so? As the saying goes, A picture is worth a thousand words! STAT 451 is a new class offered by the Statistics Department with the goal of providing students with a comprehensive understanding of data visualization techniques using R. This class requires some computational background (see course catalogue for details on the pre-requisites) and it is geared towards majors and non-majors interested in boosting their data visualization techniques, starting from fundamentals but going all the way to the design and creation of interactive dashboards.
Statistics Minor
Students intending to pursue a double major in CSE/Stat should take CSE 121-122-123 rather than CSE 160-163 to satisfy their intro programing requirements in the Statistics B.S. The CSE 121-122-123 sequence satisfies lower-division requirements for both majors.
Students who have AP calculus and CS credits from high-school may be eligible to apply for admission to the Statistics major in their freshmen year (see Plan B).
Terms
The Department of Statistics offers various classes with the goal of introducing students to theory and applications of machine learning methodologies, technologies, and algorithms. The most popular options are STAT/CSE 416 and STAT 435. Students entering these classes should have some knowledge of probability, statistics, and algorithms, as reflected by these courses’ pre-requites (see the course catalog for more details on the pre-requisites). STAT/CSE 416 is a machine learning course designed for non-STAT and non-CSE majors and it requires some prior coursework in probability and statistics as well as a course in computer science. STAT/CSE 416 relies on programming in Python, while STAT 435 relies on programming in R. STAT 435 is geared towards Statistics majors and students with a stronger mathematical background. It covers similar topics to STAT/CSE 416, but it provides a deeper theoretical understanding of the methods.
The Department of Statistics welcomes students who are willing to pursue a double major or a double degree. Juggling the requirements of two majors can be very challenging. While you can find general information on UW’s requirements for double majors and double degrees at this link , on this page we include details that should facilitate students who are pursuing a double major or double degree with Statistics. In particular, the Department of Statistics is working with other departments at UW to create preapproved paths which include courses that can and cannot double count towards the major. Please note that this is only a suggestion and students do not have to follow our pre-approved path.
The following flow-charts will help you understand the STAT 300 level courses and their pre-requisites. For a full list of courses please see this page .
The MATH 124-125-126-208 (or, alternatively, MATH 134-135-135) sequence satisfies lower-division mathematics requirements for both majors.
The MATH 124-125-126-208 (or, alternatively, MATH 134-135-135) sequence satisfies lower-division mathematics requirements for both majors. It can be double counted.
The Statistics Department offers several introductory courses which provide Natural World (NW) and Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) general education credits. Each course is geared towards a slightly different audience. For a full description of these courses, content and prerequisites, please visit our course catalog .
Transfer Credit Evaluations
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington
Upper division courses: 19 credits (CSE 446/STAT 435: 4 credits, SOC 225/STAT 303: 3 credits, CSE 442: 4 credits, CSE 444: 4 credits, CSE 332: 4 credits).
Upper division courses: up to 15 credits (3 credits for 394, 9 credits for either MATH 300-327-424 or MATH/STAT 395-491-492/3, and 3 credits for MATH 318).
We recommend taking the data science track to students who are willing to double major with CSE. Below we provide some parameters for managing course overlap and for double counting courses across both majors under that assumption:
We recommend taking the mathematical statistics track to students who are willing to double major with Mathematics. Below we provide some parameters for managing course overlap and for double counting courses across both majors under that assumption:
Which Statistics Course?
