Owner: uw-seattle-physics
Source: https://phys.washington.edu/physics-bs-degree-requirements
Title: Physics B.S. Degree Requirements | Department of Physics | University of Washington

(10 credits)
(6-10 credits),
[Supplemental official source] B.S. Degree
[Supplemental official source] Continuation Policy
[Supplemental official source] Declaring Major
‖ PHYS 417 can be used to meet the advanced laboratory requirement OR the elective requirement.
§ Students receiving credit for physics-related research or independent project work in another department may petition the UFA to have it meet the capstone requirement by writing a paper describing how they applied physics to their independent project.
* Astronomy students may substitute Astr 300 or 427 for AMath 301; contact the undergraduate faculty advisor (UFA) to have this entered into your DARS. Students may petition the UFA for other upper-division data science, computing or statistics classes to substitute for AMath 301, note however that STAT 311, CS 142, and CS 143 do not meet this requirement.
* At most two of Astr 321, 322 and 323 may be used to satisfy this Physics requirement.
* Chem 457 plus an additional upper-division physics course may substitute for the Phys 328 requirement with permission from the undergraduate faculty advisor (UFA). Most students should not take both Phys 328 and Chem 457.
& Analysis:
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
‡ Chem 143 + 153 , Accelerated General Chemistry, may substitute for Chem 142+152+162; see the UFA to allow this.
‡ Students taking other advanced labs may petition the UFA to have them substitute for Astr 480.
1 course from:
100-level:
12-15 credits from the
2 courses from:
200-level:
2025-26 Quarterly Course Offerings
3 courses from:
3 credits from any
3 credits from:
3 to 5 credits from any
300-level:
6 credits from:
9 credits from:
A completed MyPlan listing all graduation requirements is required. We recognize that plans can change over time, however applicants should develop a well-considered plan for degree completion, which includes UW general education requirements . A list of physics courses, the quarters in which they are offered, and their prerequisites may be found at the bottom of this page for the upcoming year. You should assume a similar schedule in future years. Upon request, Physics Student Services will review your completed MyPlans and provide feedback either through email ( physadvs@uw.edu ) or during appointed advising hours .
A student on Academic Alert who fails to make satisfactory progress for an additional quarter will be placed on Academic Warning and receive a registration hold. An Academic Warning email will be sent detailing the unmet criteria. To remove the hold, the student must meet with a Physics Student Services advisor , who will provide support as mentioned in the section above. Failure to meet with an advisor will prevent future registrations. Students on Academic Warning are also encouraged to meet with an Undergraduate Academic Affairs advisor to develop a backup plan in case of dismissal from the Physics major. They must meet with a Physics Student Services advisor each quarter on Academic Warning. If a student shows satisfactory progress for two consecutive quarters, they will revert to Academic Alert status.
a) Chem 142 (or Chem 145 ), 152 (or Chem 155 ), 162 (or Chem 165 )
About
Academic Alert
Academic Drop
Academic Honesty
Academic Warning
Accelerated Advanced Calculus (5)
Accelerated General Chemistry
Additional physics or cognate electives
Adjuncts & Affiliates
Administrative Contacts
Admission Cycles (Standard and Early)
Admission Decisions
Admissions
Admissions | Department of Physics | University of Washington
Admissions to the Physics major is capacity constrained and requires an application. Completion of the application does not guarantee admission. Members of the Undergraduate Admissions Committee review each application holistically and make decisions based on the requirements below. .
Admitted applicants must register in the academic quarter following the application decision (not including summer quarter); students who do not register will forfeit their admission offer to the major and will need to reapply in a future application cycle.
Advanced Cell Biology (3)
Advanced Laboratory (6-8 credits),
Advanced Laboratory,
Advanced Multivariable Calculus (3)
Advice For Prospective Majors
Advice for Students
Advising & Student Services
ALL applicants must submit a pdf of academic transcripts and graduation plan. You can activate UW Google here . Contact Physics Student Services if you have difficulty accessing the form.
All Staff
All students newly admitted to the major must file a graduation plan approved by Physics Student Services by the end of the quarter in which they become a Physics major. Failure to do so will result in a registration hold until their graduation plan is approved by Physics Student Services.
Alumni News
Alumni Update
AMath 301 *
AMath 401
Animal Physiology:
Applicants receive admission decisions to their UW email within 2 weeks of the application deadline , in time for registration the following quarter. If admitted, follow the directions in the email acceptance message; if you do not accept the offer by the deadline you will need to reapply. Transfer applicants will be informed of their status by UW Admissions.
Applicants receiving a negative admission decision who believe important facts were overlooked by the admissions committee may appeal the decision by submitting a petition for reconsideration to Physics Student Services within two weeks of the notification email date. Submit only pertinent information not included with your original application. Applicants receive appeal decision emails one week after the deadline.
Application Closes
Application Opens
Application Quarter
Applied physics track
Applied Physics Track
Applied Physics Track (addl. 34-43 credits)
Appropriate for Transfer Applicants who wish to apply for direct admission to the Physics major while applying to the UW.
April 6
Astr 321 *
Astr 322 *
Astr 323 *
Astr 480 ‡ or Astr 481
Astr 480 or Astr 481 ‡
Astr 481
Astronomical Data Analysis/Acquisition (5)
Astronomical Observation (5)
Autumn
Awards
B.S. Degree
b) Chem 143 and CHEM 153
Bachelor of Science in Physics
Bachelor of Science in Physics | Department of Physics | University of Washington
Beginning Scientific Computing (4)
BioC 405 or 440
Biochemistry (3-4)
Biol 180
Biol 200
Biol 220
Biol 340
Biol 350
Biol 355
Biol 401
Biol 404
Biol 427
Biol 461
Biol 467
Biol 499 or Chem 499
Biological Physics (3)
Biological Physics Track (addl. 48-56 credits)
Biological physics track (No longer accepting new students as of Spring 2024)
Biology & Chemistry
Biomechanics (5)
Biomolecular Analysis (3)
Biomolecular Spectroscopy (3)
Biophysics-related projects in Phys 498
Biophysics-related projects in Phys 499
Box 351560
BS Degree Requirements Before Autumn 2021
Calendar
Capstone Options
Capstone,
Cellular & Developmental Biology (5)
Cellular Aspects (3)
Centers & Institutes
Chem 223 (or 237 or 335 )
Chem 224 (or 238 or 336 )
Chem 428
Chem 452 (or 456 )
Chem 453
Chem 454
Chem 455 (or 456)
Classical Mechanics (3)
Climate & Diversity
College of Arts & Sciences
combination of:
Common requirements, all tracks
Common Requirements, All Tracks (52 credits)
Community Support
Comparative Animal Physiology (3)
Completion of Math 124 & 125 (or Math 134 & 135)
Completion of Math 124, 125 & 126 (or Math 134, 135 & 136)
Completion of Phys 121 & 122 (or Phys 141 & 142)
Completion of Phys 121, 122 & 123 (or Phys 141, 142 & 143)
Comprehensive & Applied Physics Track Electives
Comprehensive Physics Track
Comprehensive track
Comprehensive Track (addl. 38-46 credits)
Computers in Data Acquisition (3)
Contact Us
Continuation in the Major
Continuation in the Major | Department of Physics | University of Washington
Continuation Policy
Core Physics:
Course Exam Archive
Course Syllabi
Courses
Courses Offered
Criteria for Satisfactory Progress & Continuation in the Major:
Currently enrolled in Phys 123 (or Phys 143) & Math 126 (or Math 136 or 200-level math)
Currently enrolled in physics lecture course higher than 220
Data Acquisition
Declaring a Physics Major
Declaring Major
Department Faculty
Department of Physics
Department Profile
Differential Calculus (5)
Direct Reading in Physics
Direct Reading in Physics (2)
Directories
Early Admissions Requirements – Successful applicants typically have grades ≥ 3.2 in recent physics and math courses as well as a cumulative GPA ≥ 3.2.
Electives,
Electromagnetism (5)
Electromagnetism I (4)
Electromagnetism II (4)
Electromagnetism III (4)
Electronics Lab: Analog (3)
Electronics Lab: Digital (3)
Emeritus Faculty
Employment
Enrollment into Major
Events
Events Mailing Lists
Every Physics B.S. degree option requires completion of a selection of courses plus fulfilment of a capstone requirement involving activities outside a typical classroom. Continuation in the major requires maintaining satisfactory progress. For further information on the range of activies which may be used to satisfy the capstone requirement for each degree track, and on satisfactory progress criteria, refer to:
Every quarter, Physics Student Services reviews the progress of all majors. If a student's performance fails to meet the above satisfactory progress standards in any quarter during their tenure as a Physics major, the student is first placed on Academic Alert status. This changes to Academic Warning, and lastly on Academic Drop status, in each subsequent quarter in which satisfactory progress standards are not met, unless the non-satisfactory status is removed through the procedures described below.
Evolution & Ecology (5)
Excessive course repeats, course drops, and/or University withdrawals may constitute a lack of satisfactory progress.
Extragalactic Astronomy & Cosmology (3)
Faculty
Fax: (206) 685-0635
following options:
For students interested in biophysics or medical physics
Foundations in Molecular Cell Biology (3)
Foundations in Physiology (3)
Frontiers of Physics Lecture Series
Full Directory
General Chemistry
Genetics & Molecular Ecology (5)
Genome 499 or MicroM 499
Get Involved
Graduation
Graduation Plan
Graduation Plan (completed in MyPlan).
Hardship Withdrawal
History
Home
Honors in Physics
Honors Seminar (1)
If admitted to the Physics major, current UW and entering transfer students must register at UW Seattle during the first quarter of admittance to the major. Students not enrolled for the quarter following the application decision will forfeit their admissions offer and will need to reapply for a future application cycle.
In accordance with University policy and applicable federal and state statutes and regulations, the Department of Physics reaffirms its policy of equal opportunity regardless of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, or status as a protected veteran. The University of Washington is committed to providing access and reasonable accommodation in its services, programs, activities, education and employment for individuals. To request accommodation in the application process, contact the Physics Department at 206-685-1832 or physadvs@uw.edu , or the Disability Services Office at 206-543-6450 (206-543-6452 TTY, 206-685-7264 FAX, 253-642-0142 VP) or e-mail to dso@uw.edu , at least ten days in advance of the application deadline
In addition to the University policies regarding academic satisfactory progress , the Department of Physics has adopted the following additional requirements for continuation in the major. These are intended to provide reasonable assurance of academic success of our students while also making good use of departmental resources. Students are encouraged to periodically review their academic progress, and may seek advice from Physics Student Services at any time.
In Memoriam
In the Press
Instagram
Integral Calculus (5)
Introduction to Quantum Mechanics (3)
Introduction to Research: Frontiers of Physics (1)
Introductory Biology
Introductory Biology (5)
Introductory Chemistry,
Introductory Courses
Introductory Experimental Physics (3)
involves teaching
IT Support (PACS)
January 1
January 15
Keep phones and other electronics devices off and put away. If a test is closed book (& notes), keep all papers and other materials put away and out of sight.
Linear Algebra (3)
LinkedIn
Machine Shop
Main menu
Make a Gift
Maps
March 15
Math 124 or Math 134
Math 125 or Math 135
Math 126 or Math 136
Math 207 or AMath 351
Math 208 or AMath 352
Math 209 or AMath 353
Math 224
Math 334 or 335 or 336
Mathematical Methods of Physics I (4)
Mathematical Methods of Physics II (4)
Mechanics (5)
Mentoring Program
Menu
Modern Physics Lab: Atomic (3)
Modern Physics Lab: Condensed Matter (3)
Modern Physics Lab: Nuclear & Particle (3)
More Math (3-5 credits),
More Math,
More Physics,
Multivariate Calculus (5)
MyPhys
MyUW
Neural Network Methods (3)
Neurobiology (3)
Neusci 499
News & Events
Newsletter
No longer accepting new students as of Spring 2024
October 5
ONLY for recently admitted UW transfer students or current UW students who have completed ≥ 105 credits and ≥ 5 post high-school college quarters. Either Standard or Early Pathway, as appropriate.
Optics Lab (3)
Ordinary Differential Equations (3)
Organic Chemistry I (4)
Organic Chemistry II (4)
Other than the reset options described above, involving two consecutive quarters of satisfactory progress after an Academic Alert or Academic Warning, the above three stages of unsatisfactory progress can only be removed with a Hardship Withdrawal (or Former Quarter Drop ) from the problematic course(s) in question, or if the grades for the problematic course(s) change to a 2.0 or above. Students who are seeking Hardship Withdrawals should be in contact with an advisor. It is the student's responsibility to let Physics Student Services know if their Hardship Withdrawal has been approved.
Our Galaxy (3)
Our Physics B.S. degree program is one of the largest in the nation, with 175 degrees awarded annually. Graduates pursue diverse paths including further studies in physics, teaching careers, and positions in the private sector. The program offers three B.S. degree tracks: Comprehensive Physics, Applied Physics, and Teaching Physics, allowing students to tailor their degree to their interests and goals. Students choose a track when declaring a major, but can change it anytime before applying to graduate.
P Bio 499 or BioE 499
Partial Differential Equations (3)
Particles & Symmetries (3)
Pay close attention to the rules regarding academic honesty for the particular course and instructor, as they may vary;
People
Personal Statement
Personal Statement. Describe reasons for choosing major, include strategies for success.
PhD Program
PhD Students
Phone: (206) 543-2771
Phys 121 or Phys 141
Phys 122 or Phys 142
Phys 123 or Phys 143
Phys 224
Phys 225
Phys 226
Phys 227
Phys 228
Phys 231
Phys 294
Phys 321
Phys 322
Phys 323
Phys 324
Phys 325
Phys 328
Phys 328 *
Phys 329
Phys 331
Phys 334
Phys 335
Phys 401 or Phys 402 or Phys 403
Phys 407 + 408 + 409
Phys 417 ‖
Phys 429
Phys 431
Phys 432
Phys 433
Phys 434
Phys 485 , 486 or 487
Phys 494 , 495 or 496
Phys 498
Phys 499 , working on a project that
Phys 499 or Astr 499 §
Phys 499 or BioC 499
Physical Chemistry for Biochemists I
Physical Chemistry for Biochemists II
Physical Chemistry I & II (3)
Physics B.S. Degree Requirements
Physics B.S. Degree Requirements | Department of Physics | University of Washington
Physics by Inquiry (15)
Physics Colloquium
Physics Minor
Physics News
Physics Pedagogy (3)
Physics-Astronomy Building, Rm. C121
physrecp@uw.edu
Postdocs
Postdoctoral Fellowship Programs
Privacy
PROCEED TO APPLICATION FOR NEXT ADMISSIONS CYCLE
Professional Master&#039;s
Programs & Courses
Quantum Mechanics I (4)
Quantum Mechanics II (4)
Quick links
Quick Links
Recipients
Requirements
Research
Research Areas
Research Experiences for Undergrads (REU)
Research News
Research Seminars
Resources
Review and Notification of Progress:
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-1560
Senior Seminar (1)
September 15
Share
Sit as far as possible from other students during tests. Do not sit near your regular study partners, so any unusually similar methods you may have learned together won't suggest copying occurred;
Site Map
Skip to main content
Society of Physics Students (SPS)
Solar System (3)
Spring
Staff
Standard Admission Requirements – Successful applicants typically have grades ≥ 2.6 in recent physics and math courses as well as a cumulative GPA ≥ 2.6.
Statistical Physics (3)
Student conduct at the University of Washington is governed by the Student Conduct Code . Students are expected to maintain the highest standards of academic conduct. For further information, refer to this page . The UW Physics Department expects every student to uphold academic honesty and refrain from any cheating on tests or plagiarism on assignments. Cheating/plagiarism is generally defined as taking credit for someone else's work, whether the source is a fellow student, book, or online resource. Cheating/plagiarism on assignments and tests hurts both the student committing the infraction and their fellow physics majors. Cheating, plagiarism, or other forms of academic misconduct, especially repeated offenses, may have severe consequences. Imposition of disciplinary sanctions by the Student Conduct Office will be considered equivalent to a student not making satisfactory progress during that quarter. To avoid any instance of apparent or inadvertent academic dishonesty, students are strongly urged to:
Student Services
Student Shop
Students in all tracks of the Physics B.S. program are required to maintain a cumulative average GPA of at least 2.0 in all physics classes. This average includes the grades from all enrollments in any repeated course.
Students must earn a numerical grade of at least a 2.0 in each course used to satisfy the requirements of the physics major. Courses used to satisfy requirements of the major must be taken on a graded basis, except if the course is only offered CR/NC. Courses taken as satisfactory/non-satisfactory (S/NS) cannot be used towards major requirements and thus violate this policy except during quarters which have been declared to be Extraordinary Circumstances Quarters , during which S grades may be used to satisfy graduation requirements.
Students must take physics courses, courses from the menu of cognate math classes, or electives in other departments that meet a requirement for the physics major, such that they are able to graduate with a physics degree within the limits set by the University's satisfactory progress policy. Specifically, students should take one or more courses in each quarter for which they are registered that meet a requirement for the physics major, with allowable exceptions for students completing double majors and students who have nearly completed all requirements of the physics major.
Students on Academic Warning who do not meet satisfactory progress in the following quarter will be placed on Academic Drop status. They will receive an email with appeal instructions, which must include a realistic graduation plan and be submitted to Physics Student Services by the deadline specified in the email. Students have one chance to appeal; if unsuccessful or if they do not appeal, they will be assigned a premajor status and may be removed from physics courses restricted to declared majors. If the appeal is approved, students must adhere to the agreed-upon progress plan. Failing to do so in the next quarter will result in a final drop from the major, which cannot be appealed.
Students who are not currently on Academic Alert or Academic Warning will receive an email and a registration hold after failing to meet departmental progress criteria. The Academic Alert email will detail unmet criteria; students must acknowledge the email to lift the hold. Those who believe they received an erroneous warning should contact Physics Student Services . Students are strongly urged to meet with an advisor, who will offer resources, help plan manageable course loads, and discuss pathways within or outside their major. Circumstances affecting academic performance, including extenuating factors, should be addressed. Academic Alert status will be lifted if satisfactory progress is made in the following two quarters or if the warning was issued in error.
Summer or Autumn
Summer REU at UW
Support Physics
Support Us
Teaching physics track
Teaching Physics Track
Teaching Physics Track (addl. 41-43 credits)
Terms
The Applied Physics track is ideal for students pursuing technical jobs with a Physics B.S., offering a broad grounding in physics with fewer required courses and less intense math. It allows students to diversify skills in climate science, data science, electrical engineering, aerospace, or entrepreneurship, so students can easily pursue a double major in another STEM field. Unique requirements include a statistics-focused lab, a relevant computer programming class, and elective options in related science areas.
The Biophysics Track is no longer accepting new students as of Spring 2024
The Comprehensive track is for students seeking a strong foundation in physics, including in-depth mathematical understanding. It is ideal for those planning to pursue a career in physics or related fields, as well as those considering graduate studies in physics or astronomy. To fully prepare for graduate school, take as many upper-division courses and research opportunities as possible.
The course requirements for a Physics B.S. degree begin with a common set of course options, applicable to all degree tracks, followed by a selection of additional option-specific courses. Note that any single course may satisfy at most one physics-specific degree requirement.
The Teaching Physics track is for those interested in teaching physics or math at pre-college levels, as well as for students pursuing careers in science journalism or other fields involving the communication of physics to a broader audience. The track includes the Physics by Inquiry sequence, Phys 407 / 408 / 409 , to develop conceptual understanding and communication skills without college-level math. Students in this track can benefit from and contribute to the UW's esteemed Physics Education Research Group .
Thermal & Statistical Physics (3)
This statement (500 words or less) should discuss reasons for choosing the Physics major and strategies for success, including lessons learned from previous successes / difficulties and plans for accessing support. The statement should also address how the chosen degree option (Applied, Comprehensive, or Teaching) is suited to life and career goals.
Topics
Transfer Credit
Transfer Student Admissions
Undergraduate Research
Undergraduate Research (1-6)
University of Washington
Upcoming Events
User account menu
UW Course Catalog
UW Time Schedule
Vector Calculus (3)
Vector Calculus & Complex Variables (4)
Visitor Information
Washington
Waves, Optics & Heat (5)
Winter
Winter Quarter Admission
You are here
YouTube
