Owner: uw-seattle-geography:pathway:data-science-option-sample-course-plan
Source: https://geography.washington.edu/ba-geography
Title: B.A. in Geography | Department of Geography | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] B.A. in Geography: Data Science Option
[Supplemental official source] B.A. with Honors in Geography
[Supplemental official source] Courses by Track
[Supplemental official source] Declare the Geography Major
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
3. Globalization, Health and Development (GHD)
A collaborative team honors project, for example a significant-length research paper or extensive digital project, resulting from substantial research. The exact format of the final honors project will be determined in conversation with our liaison with the Duwamish Tribe.
A combined total of 5 credits of Internship (GEOG 496) and Independent Study (GEOG 499) may be counted towards the required 60 geography credits.
A GPA of at least 3.5 in geography courses, and an overall GPA of 3.40 or above.
About
Additional Readings & Resources
Admission Requirements for Honors in Geography
Admissions
Advising
Affiliated Centers
After the stated deadline, applicants will be contacted to schedule and complete an interview with the Geography Undergraduate Advising Office. The interview will pertain to the applicant’s intellectual interests and experiences in independent research and collaborative work.
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
Alumni Update
Applicants are highly encouraged to have completed GEOG 315, Explanation and Understanding in Geography, or an alternative course in social science methodology, before entrance into the honors program. Applicants who have not taken GEOG 315 should plan to register for it in the autumn quarter of their senior year.
Application for 2026-2027 is now open. The deadline is Friday, April 10, 2026. Selected applicants will be invited for an interview by end of April 2026.
APPLY NOW
Applying to Graduate School
Attend a Geography Major Information Session. The full list of upcoming sessions can be found below.
Attend a Geography New Student Orientation from the dates listed in the table below. Students who are unable to attend an orientation session and are concerned about the university's Satisfactory Progress Policy are welcome to complete the Geography New Student Survey linked below and then reach out to a geography adviser for assistance.
Awards & Honors
B.A. in Geography
B.A. in Geography COURSE Sample
B.A. in Geography: Data Science Option
B.A. in Geography: Data Science Option Sample Course Plan
B.A. with Honors in Geography
Breadth: One course from each of the four tracks: Cities, Citizenship, and Migration; Environment, Economy, and Sustainability; GIS, Mapping, and Society; and Globalization, Health, and Development (20 credits). These "broad track" courses offer a great introduction to the discipline of geography to get you started in the major. Check out the three-quarter planner to find interesting courses you might like to take, then review the list of Geography courses by track to understand how those courses will count in the major.
By completing the Honors in Geography program, students graduate with a B.A. with Honors in Geography. Students who are enrolled in the Interdisciplinary Honors program and also complete the Honors in Geography program receive a B.A. with College Honors. For more information about Department or Interdisciplinary Honors programs, please visit the Honors Program website .
By the deadline stated in the invitation, applicants must submit the completed online application form to the undergraduate advising office. See link above for access to the application form.
By the stated deadline, applicants must submit a 1-page (400-500 words) personal statement as part of the application form as well as uploading an updated unofficial UW transcript.
Calendar
Calendaring
College of Arts & Sciences
College to Career
Colloquium
Committee Year-End Reports
Community
Complete any GEOG-prefix course at the 200-level or higher with a minimum grade of 2.0.
Complete the Geography New Student Survey by clicking the button below. Please note that this form requires you to log into your browser with your UW NetID; if you are logged into Google – or even just your browser – with a different Google account, the form will not allow you access. In that case, please open this page in a private/incognito browsing window and then click the purple button below so that Google will prompt you to log in with your UW NetID to access the form . Still doesn't work? Please be sure you have activated your UW G Suite .
Completion of a minimum of 180 credits, with a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or above ( final 45 credits must be earned in-residence ), and a cumulative departmental GPA of 2.0 across all geography courses that are counting for major requirements.
Completion of a minimum of 180 credits, with a cumulative UW GPA of 2.0 or above ( final 45 credits must be earned in-residence ).
Completion of all General Education requirements for the College of Arts & Sciences.
Completion of all geography major requirements as noted above.
Computer Labs
Computing
Contact Us
Courses
Courses by Track
Declare the Geography Major
Declare the Geography Major | Department of Geography | University of Washington
Declare the Geography Major: Student Survey
Degree Options
Degree Planning
Department of Geography
Depth: Four upper-division courses in one of the four tracks listed above, at least two of which must be 400-level (20 credits).
Directories
Diversity & Equity
Electives: at least two GEOG courses at the 200-level and above (10 credits).
Electives: Complete all of the requirements below (36-39 credits).
Explain your reasons for wanting to substitute this course for a geography (GEOG-prefix) course in your major requirements
Facebook
Faculty
Faculty & Staff Resources
Faculty Meetings
Fax: (206) 543-3313
Featured Courses
Fields of Interest
Final presentations on research results and deliverables at the end of SPR 2027 at:
For more information, please contact:
Foundations: GEOG 258, GEOG 360 and GEOG 381; plus one course from either the Environment, Economy, and Sustainability track or Globalization, Health, and Development track (20 credits). Check out the three-quarter planner to find when these courses are offered, then review the list of Geography courses by track for all eligible course options.
Fulfillment of regular degree requirements for geography major.
Funding Grad School
GEOG 100 — Introduction to Geography
GEOG 102 — World Regions
GEOG 123 — Introduction to Globalization
GEOG 180 --- Intro To Global Health
GEOG 200 --- Intro to Human Geography
GEOG 203 — Geographies of Migration
GEOG 205 — Our Global Environment
GEOG 207 — Economic Geography
GEOG 208 — Geography of the World Economy: Regional Fortunes and the Rise of Global Markets
GEOG 230 — Urbanization and Development: Geographies of Global Inequality
GEOG 236 — Geography of Greater China
GEOG 245 — Introduction to Population Science
GEOG 258 — Digital Geographies
GEOG 270 — Geographies of International Development & The Environment
GEOG 271 — Geography of Food and Eating
GEOG 276 — Intro to Political Geography
GEOG 276 — Introduction to Political Geography
GEOG 277 — Geography of Cities
GEOG 280 — Introduction to the Geography of Health and Health Care
GEOG 295 — Introduction to Migration (Autumn 2015 only)
GEOG 315: Explanation and Understanding in Geography (5 credits). This course covers the beginning steps in the research process. Students develop basic library and writing skills as preparation for future research methods classes and independent research. Recommended preparation includes 10-15 credits of prior GEOG curriculum coursework.
GEOG 331 — Poverty, Care and Responsibility
GEOG 332 --- Black Feminist Geographies
GEOG 335 — The Developing World
GEOG 337 --- Migration and Development in China
GEOG 342 — Geography of Inequality
GEOG 360 — Principles of GIS Mapping
GEOG 370 — Environmental Conservation
GEOG 371 — World Hunger and Resource Development
GEOG 373 — Food and Community: Cultural Practices in the Hispanic World
GEOG 375 — Geopolitics
GEOG 380 — Geographical Patterns of Health and Disease
GEOG 473 — Geographies of Energy and Sustainability
GEOG 474 — Geography & the Law
GEOG 477 — Advanced Urban Geography
GEOG 480 — Environmental Geography, Climate, and Health
GEOG 490 — Field Research: The Seattle Region
geog@uw.edu
Geography Major Requirements
Geography Tracks
Get in Touch
GIS Resources at UW
GIS, Mapping, and Society: GEOG 458; GEOG 461; GEOG 465; GEOG 482
Graduate
Graduate Programs Policies & Procedures
Graduate Students
Graduation
Graduation Requirements for Honors in Geography
Home
Hours and Information
How does globalization shape life and death around the planet? How can development initiatives address global health disparities? Providing geographical answers to such questions, this track traces the extraordinarily uneven effects of global trade, global finance, and market-led development on food systems, health and the geography of impoverishment. By putting global health challenges in a global socio-economic context, the track simultaneously highlights how social movements and social organizing can make a difference, including differences in formal policies effecting human well-being directly as well as innovations in the ethics of care. Courses in the track provide frequent opportunities for service learning as part of the goal of helping students engage with real world challenges. All our classes also approach these themes through a geographical lens: charting global-local relations and the links between nature, society and political-economy in particular places. This geographical approach in turn enables us to explore how nutrition, health, and development are intertwined with other processes ranging from the personal experiences of migrant farm workers, to urban and regional redevelopment, to global financial reforms. Specific questions that frame our classes include: What are the links between life and debt (GEOG 123)? How have sixty years of development increased in-country inequality (Geog 230)? How do global disease etiologies reflect other global interconnections (Geog 280)? How does agricultural modernization relate to hunger (Geog 371)? And what are the implications for food security, health security and developmental security when they are re-framed in terms of geopolitics and the global security challenges of international relations (Geog 375)?
How does globalization shape life and death around the planet? How can development initiatives address global health disparities? Providing geographical answers to such questions, this track traces the extraordinarily uneven effects of global trade, global finance, and market-led development on food systems, health and the geography of impoverishment. By putting global health challenges in a global socio-economic context, the track simultaneously highlights how social movements and social organizing can make a difference, including differences in formal policies effecting human well-being directly as well as innovations in the ethics of care. Courses in the track provide frequent opportunities for service learning as part of the goal of helping students engage with real world challenges. All our classes also approach these themes through a geographical lens: charting global-local relations and the links between nature, society and political-economy in particular places. This geographical approach in turn enables us to explore how nutrition, health, and development are intertwined with other processes ranging from the personal experiences of migrant farmworkers, to urban and regional redevelopment, to global financial reforms. Specific questions that frame our classes include: What are the links between life and debt (GEOG 123)? How have sixty years of development increased in-country inequality (Geog 230)? How do global disease etiologies reflect other global interconnections (Geog 280)? How does agricultural modernization relate to hunger (Geog 371)? And what are the implications for food security, health security and developmental security when they are re-framed in terms of geopolitics and the global security challenges of international relations (Geog 375)?
If you are requesting to substitute a course outside of the Department of Geography, please also include the following:
Include the syllabus for the course you wish to substitute
Instagram
Instructor Resources
Interdisciplinary Writing Studio
LinkedIn
MA Requirements
Machine Learning: either STAT 311 or MATH/STAT 390; one of CSE 416/STAT 416, STAT 435, or INFO 371
Main menu
Make a Gift
Maps
Menu
Methods: One course from among GEOG 317 or 326, or other courses approved by petition to the Geography Advising Office (5 credits).
Methods: One course from among GEOG 317, 326, 425, or 426, or other courses approved by petition to the Geography Advising Office (5 credits).
Minimum cumulative UW GPA of 2.00.
Minimum Requirements to Declare the Major
Minor in Geography
MyUW
Name the requirement & the course you would like to substitute
Near the end of winter quarter or toward the beginning of spring quarter, geography majors of junior standing with a GPA of at least 3.5 in at least 3 UW Geography courses, and an overall GPA of 3.4, will receive an invitation to apply to the honors program.
Nell Gross, Director of Academic Services
News & Events
News Archive
Newsletter
ngross@uw.edu
No single course may be counted toward more than one degree requirement.
One from CSE 180, INFO 201, GEOG 245, or GEOG 258
Overview
People
Personnel & Payroll
Ph.D. Requirements
Phone: (206) 543-5843
Policies & Procedures
Privacy
Programming: either CSE 142 or CSE 160; either CSE 143 or CSE 163
Programs & Courses
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Racial Equity Assessment
Recent News
Reimbursement & Travel
Remote Computing
Requirements Prior to SUM 2022
Research
Resources
Review Statement
Safety
Sample Course Plan in MyPlan
Scholarships & Financial Aid
Scholarships & Financial Support
Search
Seattle, WA 98195
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Smith Hall 408, Box 353550
Staff
Statement of Nondiscrimination
Stay Connected
Step 1 (Optional)
Step 2 (Required)
Step 3 (Required)
Steps to Declare the Major
Student Policies
Students are encouraged to take appropriate elective courses outside the Department of Geography in fields that support their concentration. Such courses appropriate to various concentrations will be available on lists supplied by Geography advisers, or may be recommended by a faculty member. Students should be aware that 300- and 400- level courses in other departments are likely to have prerequisites. With the exception of STAT 311, courses taken in other departments do not count toward the required 60 GEOG credits.
Students may substitute GEOG 426 or GEOG 469 for any one of the GIS, Mapping & Society courses listed above
Students may substitute GEOG 462 for GEOG 461
Students may substitute QSCI 381 for STAT 311 or STAT 390 if planning to take CSE/STAT 416
Students may substitute STAT 220, STAT 221/CS&SS 221/SOC 221, STAT 290, QMETH 201 or Q SCI 381 for STAT 311 or STAT 390 if planning to take INFO 371 (note this requires taking INFO 370 as well)
Students may substitute STAT 341 or STAT 391 for STAT 390 if planning to take STAT 435
Students who meet the minimum requirements listed above may declare the major in any quarter. There is no application required.
Students who meet the minimum requirements listed above may declare the major in any quarter. There is no application required. Please review the information available in Undergraduate Programs and Degree Options . To declare the geography major, please complete the following steps:
Study Abroad
Submission of graduation application by the end of the third week of the quarter you intend to graduate.
Successful applicants will be notified of their acceptance into the honors program in early May.
Successful completion of three quarters (AUT-WIN-SPR) of the Undergraduate Honors Seminar, GEOG 497. This seminar is a 3-credit course that helps students collaboratively design, execute, write, and present an applied research project as a team alongside a community partner. It’s a chance for seniors to build upon their passions and interests in geography in a larger, more complex project, while forging relations of support and caring within a small group of like-minded geographers. Students will develop skills for working effectively in a team on a collaborative project as well as alongside community organizations. They will learn to help and support others in their work, share and exchange resources and ideas, give and get constructive feedback.
Support Geography
Support Us
Technical Support
Terms
The Department of Geography is open normal business hours in Smith Hall, with limited staff availability. To make an advising appointment or access virtual drop-in advising, please visit Geography Advising .
The Duwamish Longhouse, to Tribal Elders
The Geography B.A. is awarded upon:
The Geography B.A. with Data Science Option is awarded upon:
The geography major is a minimum-requirements major , which means students must meet the following requirements in order to declare the major:
The Geography Undergraduate Research Symposium
The Honors in Geography program is designed for geography majors who have satisfied the criteria for eligibility as detailed below and who wish to undertake a major project that requires a significant amount of independent work. The year-long honors project should demonstrate a high level of expertise in, and deep engagement with, a chosen area of study; the ability to conduct independent research, an aptitude for articulate, persuasive writing, and an ability to work productively in a collaborative community.
The major is organized into four tracks. Students majoring in geography select one of the four tracks to specialize in by taking four upper-division courses in that track, at least two of which must be at the 400-level.
The requirements for geography majors are as follows:
Theses & Dissertations Archive
Three-Quarter Planner
To request a substitution for any of the requirements listed above, please contact geogadv@uw.edu and include the following information in your email:
Total required: 60 credits.
Total required: 60-65 credits. No single course may be counted toward more than one degree requirement. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major.
Total required: 66-69 credits. No single course may be counted toward more than one degree requirement. Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major.
Traditionally, Honors in Geography students have developed and worked on their own research projects independently. But this coming year will look a little different! The 2026-27 Honors in Geography cohort will develop and complete an applied research project in partnership with the Duwamish Tribe. As a part of this project, our collaborative student team will be working to identify and map cultural resources in the Duwamish ancestral lands.
Transfer Students
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Research Opportunities
University of Washington
Upcoming Courses
Upcoming Information Sessions
User account menu
Washington
Welcome
You are here
Your Full Name
Your UW Student Number
