Owner: uw-seattle-chinese
Source: https://asian.washington.edu/ba-chinese
Title: B.A. in Chinese | Asian Languages & Literature | University of Washington

B.A. in Chinese | Asian Languages & Literature | University of Washington
Skip to main content
Washington
University of Washington
College of Arts & Sciences
Quick links
Quick Links
Directories
Maps
MyUW
User account menu
Search
Search
Give now
Main menu
Asian Languages & Literature
Menu
People
Faculty
Staff
Teaching Assistants
Graduate Students
Current Grad Students
GSA Officers
Department Service Assignments
Alumni
Alumni News
Submit an Update
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate
Majors & Minors
Incoming Freshmen & Current Students
Transfer Students
Scholarships
Careers
Resources & Opportunities
Graduate
Programs
Admissions
Policies and Procedures
M.A. Guidelines
Ph.D. Guidelines
Teaching Assistant Opportunities
Summer Study
Language Study
Languages Offered
Proficiency & Placement
Add Codes & Wait Lists
Teaching Endorsements
Courses
Upcoming Courses
Featured Courses
Study Abroad
Before You Go
Transferring Credits
Destinations
Research
Early Buddhist Manuscript Project
Bilingual and Biliteracy Research Lab
Welcome
People
Publications
Dissertations
Fields of Interest
News & Events
Recent News
Email List
Asia Notes Newsletter
Markus Memorial Lecture
Washin Kai
Calendar
Resources
Advising
Voicing Concerns
Health & Wellness
Financial Support
Careers
For Graduate Students
For Teaching Assistants
For Faculty and Staff
About
History
Equity, Justice, & Inclusion
Mission & Vision
Awards & Honors
Stay Connected
Support Us
Contact Us
Directories
Maps
MyUW
You are here
Home
B.A. in Chinese
Students who earn a B.A. in Chinese develop proficiency in the language, literature, and culture of a country with a powerful global reach and a literary tradition dating back more than 3,000 years. They learn to read, write, and converse in Chinese while exploring the major works of Chinese literature—from classical texts to recent works of modern fiction—and analyzing the features of the Chinese language in order to understand its history and use. Students benefit from one of the strongest Chinese language curriculum programs in the country and extensive university resources, including distinctive courses, language-intensive study abroad opportunities, and on-campus resources such as the East Asia Library . Alumni, as multilingual professionals with in-demand skills, find an advantage entering business and nonprofit work, STEM fields, graduate programs, and more across the globe.
Introductory Chinese language courses are available in the fall or summer quarters. Students should sign up for introductory courses as early as possible in order to fulfill the major’s language requirement. If you have previous experience with Chinese, see the department's information on proficiency exams and placement interviews .
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Degree Requirements
NOTE: The below requirements apply to students who declare the Chinese major in Winter Quarter 2019 or later. The previous requirements will still apply to those who declared the Chinese major before Winter Quarter 2019 unless special provision is made. Please contact a departmental advisor if you are interested in this option.
The Chinese Language & Literature major requires a minimum of 50 credits. The actual number of credits required depends on the level of Chinese language attained upon entering the University of Washington.
I. Modern Language Courses:
15-20 credits of Chinese language classes. Students must take at least CHIN 213 or CHIN 303, unless waived because of advanced skills. Remaining credits may be drawn from the following:
ASIAN 498 (by approval when offered as a Chinese language course)
CHIN 211, CHIN 212, CHIN 213
CHIN 301, CHIN 302, CHIN 303
CHIN 331 Chinese Extensive Reading
CHIN 411, 412, 413 Fourth -Year Chinese
CHIN 431 Chinese Extensive Reading
CHIN 432 Social and Cultural Issues in Contemporary China
CHIN 445 Foreign Study: Fourth-Year Chinese
I BUS 490 (when the topic is Business Chinese)
CHIN 470 Advanced Readings in Modern Chinese
CHIN 482 Advanced Readings in Modern Chinese
CHIN 496 Special Studies in Chinese (when the topic is advanced language instruction)
Students with advanced skills may alternatively take additional courses in linguistics, literature, culture, and/or classical language beyond the minimum 30 credits required, with approval of program coordinator. Note that no more than 20 credits of modern Chinese language courses may apply toward the major, although students may need to take more to reach the required third-year level of language competence.
II. Linguistics, Literature, Culture and/or Classical Language Courses:
30-35 credits of classes in Chinese linguistics, literature, culture, and/or classical language. Must include:
CHIN 451 Introduction to Classical Chinese (5 credits)
CHIN 342 or CHIN 442 The Chinese Language (5 credits)
CHIN 461 and CHIN 463 History of Chinese Literature (10 credits)
plus an additional 5-10 credits from among the following courses:
ASIAN 201 Literature and Culture of Ancient and Classical China
ASIAN 204 Literature and Culture of China from Tradition to Modernity
ASIAN 207 Special Topics in Literature and Culture of Asia (when China is the topic)
ASIAN 211 Languages and Cultures of China
ASIAN 263 Great Works of Asian Literature (when China is the topic)
CHIN 373 Chinese Poetry
CHIN 374 Chinese Prose
CHIN 380 Premodern Chinese Narrative in Translation
CHIN 381 Literature in Modern China
CHIN 385 Popular Culture in Twentieth-Century China
CHIN 443 Structure of Chinese
CHIN 452 Introduction to Classical Chinese Poetry (5 credits)
CHIN 453 Classical Chinese
CHIN 462 History of Chinese Literature
Or from courses explicitly related to China from such departments as Anthropology, Art History, International Studies, History, Linguistics, Sociology, etc. You can view a list of approved courses here. If you have questions about whether or not an outside of the department course counts towards the major, please consult with an advisor .
No more than 10 credits may come from outside of the AL&L department.
Last revised in Winter 2025.
Share
Chinese
B.A. in Chinese
Minor in Chinese
M.A. in Chinese
Ph.D. in Chinese
Chinese Language Courses
Chinese Flagship Program
Chinese Add Codes & Wait Lists
Approved Courses - Chinese
CHIN Courses
Graduate Certificate in Second/Foreign Language Teaching
Language Programs
Chinese
Hindi
Indonesian
Japanese
Khmer
Korean
Pali and the Prakrits
Sanskrit
Urdu
Vietnamese
Support Asian Languages & Literature
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Newsletter
More ways to connect
Department of Asian Languages & Literature
University of Washington
225 Gowen Hall
Box 353521
Seattle, WA 98195-3521
Phone: (206) 543-4996
asianll@uw.edu
Privacy
Terms
Site Map
Alumni Update
Contact Us
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
