Owner: uw-seattle-statistics
Source: https://stat.uw.edu/academics/undergraduate/statistics-bs/major
Title: Major Requirements | University of Washington Department of Statistics

(Optional) Write up to 100 words: If you have overcome challenges in your educational journey that you would like the committee to be aware of, please describe them here. For example, you can use this space to tell us about:
[Supplemental official source] Admissions
[Supplemental official source] Continuation and Honesty Policy
[Supplemental official source] Courses for non-majors
[Supplemental official source] Double Majors
[Supplemental official source] Honors Program
[Supplemental official source] Internships & CPT
[Supplemental official source] major requirements
[Supplemental official source] Statistics B.S.
&copy; 2026 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
a detailed plan indicating which of the options they would like to pursue to obtain Departmental honors. In particular, according to the option chosen, the following will be needed:
a list of relevant experiences (e.g., internships, projects)
A minimum GPA of 2.0 and cumulative GPA of 2.5 is required in all courses used to satisfy major requirements.
a statement of purpose that discusses their career goals
A student who has been placed on probation or has been dismissed from the major and believes that some facts in the student's documentation have been overlooked or misinterpreted may request reconsideration of the probation or dismissal from the major by writing a letter to the department. Included in the letter should be any additional information in support of the student or any other information that the student believes is relevant. In general, appeals to alter the student's status without evidence of new or additional information will not be considered. The appeal must be made within 14 days of the notification of placement on probation or dismissal from the major and will receive a response from the Statistics department within 14 days from the response of the student’s appeal.
About the Program
About Us
Academic ability as measured by GPA, factoring in difficulty and breadth of courses completed, frequency of incomplete courses, and number of repeated courses
academic ability as measured by GPA, factoring in difficulty and breadth of courses completed, frequency of incomplete courses, and number of repeated courses,
Academic Advising
Academic Honesty
Academics
Accessibility
Admission decisions
Admission requirements
Admissions
Admissions | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Admissions open the first Friday of May at 9am and close the third Friday of May at 5pm. No extensions will be given.
Admitted students have 2 business days from when the offer is sent to accept our offer by email. If admitted, students have 5 business days from when the offer was sent to declare STAT as their major, 10 business days for double majors. Non-response by the deadlines is considered a decline of our offer. Applicants are not allowed to defer admissions and they must be declared Statistics major in the Fall quarter immediately after notification of acceptance. Failure to do so can result in a withdrawal of our offer.
All applicants will be evaluated using the following criteria:
All other sections in this page refer to students who will enroll in 2024 and after.
All tracks share the same set of admission and core requirements, differing on the structure of their breath requirements . Students do not need to select a particular track when applying to the program, but they must do so before graduation. To learn more about the admissions process visit the admissions page , while you can learn more about the different tracks in the Statistics B.S. Tracks page.
All tracks share the same set of admission requirements. Students do not select a particular track when applying to the program. If admitted, students must declare one of the three tracks, but switching tracks is easy and should not delay graduation. Please refer to this page to learn more about the differences between tracks.
Alumni
An ePortfolio with at least five projects. The ePortfolio will be reviewed and approved by statistics faculty.
An internship which is considered relevant to the Stat curriculum can count either towards the degree or it can count as a replacement for the capstone project (STAT 496).
answer a set of multiple-choice questions addressing experiences in Statistics and with the activities of the Department of Statistics;
Answer one of the following: (a) Describe a dataset you wish existed. Identify an existing dataset that addresses similar variables, and discuss what you would add to that dataset, and what questions that would allow you to answer that you cannot with the available data. Do not include data that were in any way generated by LLMs; (b) Describe a moment when you changed your mind because of a statistic or statistical analysis. Where did you encounter this data, what were you convinced of before, and what about the statistic or statistical analysis led to you changing your mind? Personal and specific examples are most appreciated. If this is something you read online, please include a link to the article which changed your mind. (max 150 words)
Any double majors in CSE/Stat (independently of track) can request that 2C credits of ENGR 321 (engineering internship) or CSE 301 (CSE Internship) be used instead of STAT 496 (capstone requirement). This puts these courses on the same footing as STAT 497 (statistics internship). Approval of this request is not automatic for any of the three courses, as it is subject to review by Statistics advising on a case-by-case basis (to make sure that there is enough statistics practicum in the internship). These credits never double count.
Any student -- including a first time offender -- who is suspected of cheating will be reported to the Office of Community Standards and Student Conduct who will investigate the matter further. It is always a good idea to actively take steps to minimize the chances of falling under an umbrella of suspicion.
Appeal Procedures
Applicants must be enrolled in STAT 342 or must have completed STAT 342 at the time of application.
Applicants must have a minimum grade of 2.0 for each course required for admission. Successful applicants typically have a cumulative GPA higher than 3.0 in the courses that are listed below as required for admission, with no individual course grade below 2.5
Application requirements
Applications open on the first Friday of April and close on the third Friday of April at 5pm (Pacific Standard Time).
Applied Statistics : this track allows students to explore the use of statistical methods in specific scientific domains.
Applied Statistics Track
Applied Statistics track : it allows students to explore the use of statistical methods in specific scientific domains .
Apply Here
Apply the fundamentals of probability theory to assess the quality of estimators, statistical tests, and models, as well as their uncertainty.
Applying as a current UW undergraduate student
Applying is very simple. Once applications open, please click here to start your application. You will be asked to submit written responses to the following prompts:
ArtsUW
As part of their application, students will be asked to submit:
At least 3 credits of STAT 499 (independent study) or STAT 495 (service learning)
At the end of your major, this is how your academic curriculum will look:
Based on the exit survey in years 2020-2023, a month after graduation roughly 50% of our students pursue further education in Statistics and related fields (Data Science, Machine Learning, etc. ) at several prestigious institutions in the US , and another 40% find employment in several different sectors including the Tech industry (Amazon, Zillow, Micrsoft, Meta), consultancy (EY, Deloitte), finance and insurance (Clear Street, Mutual), healthcare (Epic System Corporation), sports (Seattle Mariners) and education (Trio, National Center of Analysis of Longitudinal Data in Education Research). Job titles vary and include Data Scientist, Data Analyst, Financial Analyst, Software engineers and developers .
Be a declared STAT major at the time you are requesting enrollment in STAT 497. For example, if you are admitted to the program during the Spring quarter, you will be a declared STAT major effective Summer (if registered) or Autumn quarter.
Be boundless
Blair also started the STAT major in Fall 2024 and plans to take STAT 342 in Winter 2025. Blair completes a full-time (40 hours per week) internship as a Data Scientist at Amazon in Summer 2025. Blair qualifies for 2 credits of STAT 497 and can use them to waive the capstone project (STAT 496).
Breadth requirements (track specific): 18-20 credits
Capstone project: STAT 496. Students can petition to have 2 credits of STAT 497 (Undergraduate Statistics Internship) or ENGR 321 (Undergraduate Engineering Internship) substitute for STAT 496.
Chair&#039;s Newsletter
Check with instructors for expectations on collaboration and outside help (including the internet) on homework and other take home assessments.
Click here to apply.
College of Arts & Sciences
Communicate effectively about data, statistical methods, and results to both technical and non-technical audiences.
Community
Computing electives
Computing: CSE 160 (strongly recommended) or CSE 122 or CSE 142. Students who have completed CSE 123 or CSE 143 satisfy this requirement even if they did not previously take CSE 122 or CSE 142.
Computing: STAT 302 and either CSE 163 (strongly recommended) or CSE 123.
Contact Us
Continuation and Honesty Policy
Continuation and Honesty Policy | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Core requirements (all tracks): 37 credits
Courses
Courses for non-majors
Coursework plus ePortfolio option : At the application stage, students must: (1) indicate which graduate classes they are planning to take and when; (2) outline how they are planning to fulfill the research requirement. If the students plan to use DRP credits to complete the research requirement in this track, we expect them to have completed at least one credit before applying. If, on the other hand, they are going to use a small project with a faculty member or STAT 495, the name and email of the sponsor/mentor along with a brief description of the project must be submitted at this stage; (3) Include a plan for the ePortfolio and include a a github page containing an initial draft of the ePortfolio with at least two completed projects.
Critically evaluate the use of statistics in scientific literature and beyond, including the ability to understand reliability, replicability, and ethical implications of such work .
CSE 332 (satisfies required elective for STAT DS students and a core requirement for all CSE majors).
CSE 332 Data Structure and Parallelism
CSE 373 Data Structures and Algorithms
CSE 442 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for either a CSE DS requirement or a CSE elective)
CSE 444 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for either a CSE DS requirement or a CSE elective)
CSE/Stat double majors can double count the following courses to satisfy requirements in both programs:
CSE/Stat double majors can either take CSE 446 (Machine Learning) or STAT 435 (Introduction to Statistical Machine Learning). Either class satisfies requirements for both programs (it can be double counted).
CSE/Stat double majors must complete both CSE 312 and MATH/STAT 394 to satisfy core requirements in each program. While there is some overlap between both courses, it is not enough to justify counting CSE 312 toward our probability requirement, and vice versa.
CSSS 321 (Data Science and Statistics for Social Sciences I) (5)
CSSS 322 (Data Science and Statistics for Social Sciences II) (5)
Current Leadership
Data Science : this track emphasizes the link between statistics and computer science
Data Science Track
Data Science track : it emphasizes the link between statistics and computer science
Data Visualization
Data visualization: One of STAT 451 (highly recommended), CSE 412, CSE 442, HCDE 411, INFO 474.
Databases: One of CSE 414, CSE 444, or INFO 330.
Decisions are made approximately within two weeks after the application deadline. Students are notified of the decision via email.
Decisions are made in conjunction with the Office of Admissions and are based on a holistic review of applicants. There is no separate application for Statistics Direct to Major applicants and no additional materials are required. Applicants should follow the UW Freshman Application guidelines; you do not need to craft a statistics-focused application. Your application will be reviewed by the UW-Seattle Office of Admissions, so questions about the application should be directed to askuwadm@uw.edu . The UW-Seattle Office of Admissions prioritizes academically strong, motivated, and well-rounded students.
Department Forms
Department History
Department Seminars
Develop a wide toolkit for statistical learning, modeling, and prediction, and understand the scope of each method .
Direct admission into the major when applying to the UW directly from high school
Directories
Dismissal from the Major
Diversity
Double Major and Double Degree
Double Major and Double Degree | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Double major in CSE (B.S.) and Statistics (B.S.)
Double major in Mathematics (B.S) and Statistics (B.S.)
Double Majors
ECON 300 Intermediate Microeconomics (5)
ECON 301 Intermediate Macroeconomics (5)
ECON 400 Advanced Microeconomics (5)
ECON 401 Advanced Macroeconomics (5)
ECON 402 Microeconomics: Methods and Applications (5)
ECON 410 Economics of Networks (5)
ECON 412 Macroeconomics and Inequality (5)
ECON 432: Empirical Industrial Organization (5)
ECON 481 Data Science Computing for Economics (5)
ECON 482 Econometric Theory and Practice (5)
ECON 483 Econometric Applications (5)
ECON 488 Causal Inference (5)
Either MATH 300, MATH 327 and MATH 424, which satisfies three core requirements of the Mathematics B.S. and is one of the breadth sequences for the mathematical statistics track of the Statistics B.S,
Electives : The list of electives for students who enrolled before or in 2023 can be found here .
Elements of your record which might misrepresent your potential as a statistics major;
Employment
Engaging in an internship is a great way to explore careers, expand your professional network and gain valuable experience by applying the knowledge learnt in class to the “real world”. The Department of Statistics considers internships an integral part of the training, and students can get credit towards their degree by enrolling in STAT 497.
ENV H 465 Geographic Information Systems (GIS) in Public Health
EPI 320 Introduction to Epidemiology
EPI 410 Computational and Applied Genetic Epidemiology OR BIOST 401 Computational and Applied Genetic Epidemiology
ePortfolio
Ethics: Either STAT 303 (strongly recommended) or SOC 225 or INFO 351.
Evaluation
Evaluation criteria:
Example of what your coursework will look like
Examples
Expectation of Satisfactory Progress
Faculty
Faculty Books
Faculty Honors
FAQs
Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->Applying as a current UW undergraduate student ▾ Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->
Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ▾ Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->
Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->Direct to Major admissions for freshmen applicants ▾ Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->
Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->Transfer Students ▾ Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->
Footer menu
For example: 300, 401 and 402; 300, 400 and 410; 300, 481 and 482; 300, 301 and 412; 301, 401, and 483; ECON 300, 482 and 488.
For more information on the ePortfolio, please click here .
For more information on the requirements of a thesis project, please click here .
For students who plan to Double-Major but do not have a declared major: Please explain what other major you plan to take, why you wish to do so, and how you expect Statistics to complement your other major. (max 150 words)
For students with a declared major: If statistics is your second major or you are planning to change your major to statistics, please explain why you wish to do so and how you expect Statistics to complement your other major. If statistics is your second major or you are planning to change your major to statistics, please explain why you wish to do so and how you expect Statistics to complement your other major. (max 150 words)
Frame a scientific question and understand how to address it by appropriately designing a study, collecting data, performing a statistical analysis, and interpreting.
From ECON, three of:
From Epidemiology:
From Linguistics, t hree of:
From SOC and CSSS, three of:
Full-time internships and full-time CPT positions will only be approved for the summer quarter.
Full-time internships and full-time CPT positions will only be approved for the summer quarter. Internships and CPT applications during the academic year must be for part-time opportunities.
General electives
Give Your Support
Graduate
Have made satisfactory progress in all quarters as a STAT major (see Continuation Policy )
Home
Honors program
Honors Program
Honors program | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Honors Projects Archive (NA)
How to apply
How to Apply
How to apply for internship credits
How your personal history (family, educational, cultural, and economic background) has influenced you and your goals.
If a student wants their internship to count either towards the degree, the following must occur:
If at the end of the quarter, the student fails to meet the general expectations of satisfactory progress, the student will be placed on probation. Once on probation, the student must achieve a cum GPA higher than 2.5 and meet all the general expectations of satisfactory progress (listed in this Continuation Policy) in the following quarter to avoid dismissal from the major.
If the internship is approved, students have to enroll in STAT 497.
If you are a transfer student and you are interested in the Statistics major, you are highly encouraged to contact the Statistics advisor ( statugradadv@stat.uw.edu ) as soon as possible. Our advising staff will help you plan the coursework in preparation for the Spring admissions cycle. When you submit the major’s admission application, please explain that you joined UW as a transfer student.
If you are an international student on an active F-1 visa status, you must apply for a Curricular Practice Training (CPT) before you engage in an internship. The CPT serves as a work authorization as students engage in different types of activities related to their major. Please, review the UW ISS page regarding the CPT process. If you have questions about the process, you should refer these to your ISS adviser.
If you are an international student, do not fill out the UW ISS CPT request form until your internship has been approved by the Statistics Advising Office. If you run into any problem, please email statugradadv@stat.uw.edu
If you are not a Statistics major, but you would like (or you need) to take Statistics, please note that the Statistics Department offers several classes geared towards non majors who would like to understand statistics at different levels, either at a more conceptual and introductory level, or in its computational aspects or as a tool to gain visualize and communicate data and results.
If you have read and understand information necessary to apply for internship credits, use this request form .
If you have read and understand the information necessary to apply for CPT, use this request form .
Important dates
In a few sentences, describe why, from your perspective, the image you uploaded above is a good or bad example of data visualization. Start your answer with "This is a good example because" or "This is a bad example because" so that your opinion is clear. If you choose an example of a bad visual representation, explain what you would do to improve it. Add the details of where you found it and a link to it. Surprise us with your choice! (Submit the link to the original source in the designated field below and check that it works.) (max 150 words)
In addition to the writing prompts all applicants will be asked to:
In order to take advantage of Direct to Major admissions, UW freshman applicants must list Statistics as their first-choice major . Please note that the University of Washington does not consider an applicant's second-choice major for admission into direct-entry majors or colleges. Hence, applicants will only be considered for Direct to Major admission if Statistics is their first-choice major.
In Spring 2024, as a valid elective we also consider AMATH 490 (Mathematical Theory of Information Entropy and Data).
In summary, the total number of courses double counted for a CSE DS/STAT DS double major:
In This Section
Incomplete applications will not be considered, and extra time will not be given. Please plan ahead so you do not find yourself in this situation.
indicate their preferred track within our major (this choice is non-binding).
Interdisciplinary electives
International students must enroll in STAT 497 in order to submit a CPT request through ISS.
Internship details
Internships & CPT
Internships and CPT
Internships and CPT | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Internships which are already in progress or have been completed at the time of the form submission.
Internships which occurred before or while taking STAT 341 OR
Internships will be evaluated once a quarter in week 9 , thus forms submitted after week 9 will be evaluated the following quarter.
Intranet
Introductory classes
Jobs
Land Acknowledgement
LING 400 Survey of Linguistic Method and Theory (5)
LING 421 R for Linguists (5)
LING 471 Computational Methods for Linguists (5)
LING 472 Introduction to Computational Linguistics (5) (prereq: 400 + either LING 461 or CSE 311)
LING 473 Basics for Computational Linguistics (3) (Prerequisite: CSE 326; STAT 391)
List of electives
Login
Lower division courses : 19-30 credits (depending on whether the regular or honor calculus sequence is selected, and on whether the student places in CSE 121, 122, or 123).
Lower division courses: 15-18 credits (9-12 for the calculus/linear algebra sequence, depending on whether the regular or honor calculus sequence is selected, plus 3 credits for MATH 224).
Luke started the STAT major in Fall 2024 and plans to take STAT 342 in Winter 2025. Luke completes a part-time internship as a Data Scientist at an investment bank in Spring 2024 and another part-time internship as a Data Scientist at Microsoft in Summer 2025. Luke qualifies for 1 credit of STAT 497 in Spring 2025 and 1 credit of STAT 497 in Summer 2025, but cannot use the 2 credits (1 + 1) to waive the capstone project.
Machine Learning classes
Main navigation
Major Requirements
Major requirements : Students enrolled before or in 2023 must adhere to the major requirements linked here .
Major Requirements | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Many students discover a new academic passion during their first year - they indicate preference for one major on their UW application, but an exciting introductory course in another field causes them to reconsider. This is healthy! The Statistics Department welcomes applications to the major from current UW students who are interested in pursuing statistics. At least half of the available spots in each cohort are available to current UW students.
Maps
MATH 224 also satisfies lower-division requirements for both the Mathematics and the Statistics B.S. It can be double counted.
MATH 300 Introduction to Mathematical Reasoning
MATH 318 Advanced Linear Algebra: tools and methods
MATH 318 satisfies elective requirements for both majors and can be double counted.
MATH 407 Linear Optimization
MATH 408 Non-Linear Optimization
MATH 409 Discrete Optimizatio
MATH 409 Discrete Optimization
MATH/STAT 394 satisfies a core requirement for the Statistics B.S. and an elective requirement for the Mathematics BS. It can be double counted.
MATH/STAT 395, Probability II
MATH/STAT 396, Finite Markov Chains and Monte-Carlo Methods
MATH/STAT 491 Introduction to Stochastic Processes
MATH/STAT 492 Introduction to Stochastic Processes II
MATH/STAT 493 Stochastic Calculus for Option Pricing
Math/Stat double majors can double count one (and only one) of the following two nine-credi, three-course sequences:
Mathematical statistics : this track emphasizes the mathematical foundations of statistical methods.
Mathematical Statistics Track
Mathematical statistics track : it emphasizes the mathematical foundations of statistical methods
Mathematics: MATH 124, MATH 125, and MATH 126. Students can substitute this sequence with the accelerated (honors) calculus sequence MATH 134, MATH 135, and MATH 136.
Mathematics: MATH 208 and MATH 224. MATH 208 is waved if MATH 136 was taken.
Minimum cumulative GPA of 3.7 in the statistics, computer science and mathematics major requirements completed through the junior year.
Minimum cumulative UW GPA of 3.3
Minimum requirements to be eligible for internship credits and CPT
Most students apply at the end of their sophomore year, though this is not a requirement and students can potentially apply in any year as long as they meet the admission’s requirements.
motivation.
Motivation.
Must have completed STAT 341 before requesting enrollment in STAT 497.
MyUW
Nine credits of STAT 499. These must extend over at least 2 consecutive quarters (Summer, Autumn, Winter, Spring). Most students will work on their thesis over the course of three quarters and take three credits of STAT 499 each quarter. The plan must be discussed with their faculty supervisor and is subject to their availability. This research will culminate in a senior paper and a presentation of that work in the Annual Undergraduate Research Symposium held each May, or another venue (such as a national or regional meeting) acceptable to the faculty.
Non-admitted students have the right to petition and appeal the Department’s decision within five business days from when the decision letter was sent. Please contact mhon@uw.edu to obtain a copy of the appeal form.
Non-Degree Enrollment
Non-majors
Non-majors | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Once you have been offered a position, please fill out the Microsoft form linked below to obtain Department approval. If you are an international student, do not accept any offers before your internship has been approved as relevant to your studies by the Statistics Department and your CPT has been approved by the ISS.
Once you submit your answers, your transcripts will be pulled directly from your UW academic records, so you will not be expected to upload them.
One elective from the computing list.
One of the following three-course sequences: (a) MATH 300, MATH 327 and MATH 424, (b) MATH/STAT 395, MATH/STAT 491, and either MATH/STAT 492 or MATH/STAT 493.
One two-course graduate sequence to be chosen from (a) STAT 512 + STAT 513 or (b) STAT 516 + STAT 517 or (c) STAT 535 and either STAT 538 or STAT 548/CSE 547.
Option 1: Coursework plus ePortfolio option (9 – 11 credits):
Option 2: Thesis option (9 credits):
Or MATH/STAT 395, MATH/STAT 491 and either MATH/STAT 492 or MATH/STAT 493, which satisfies three elective requirements for the Mathematics B.S. and is one of the other breadth sequences for the mathematical statistics track of the Statistics B.S.
Overview
People
Please make sure you satisfy the requirements before applying for internship credits/CPT, we cannot make exceptions regarding eligibility requirements. Internships with the following characteristics will not be evaluated:
Please note that the statistics major at UW is not available to post-bac students owing to the large demand among first-time degree seeking undergraduates.
Please, send an email to statugradadv@stat.uw.edu once you have submitted the form.
Policies and Procedures
Possible pathways into the major include:
Postdoctoral Researchers
Preprints
Privacy
Probability: MATH/STAT 394.
Probation
Quality and feasibility of the submitted plan.
Recent News
relevant work and experience,
Relevant work and life experience.
Requirements to earn Departmental Honors
Research
Resources
Review and Notification of Progress
Search
serve as an intern full time 40 hours a week for at least 10 weeks
Serve as an intern part-time (for instance 20 hours a week) for at least 20 weeks
Since admission is capacity constrained, completion of the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission.
Sit away from usual study partners in an in-class test situation.
Skip to main content
SOC 225 or STAT 303 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for the CSE DS track).
SOC 328 Methodology of Sociological Research (5)
SOC 330 Human Ecology (5)
SOC 331 Population and Society (5)
Staff
Starting in Autumn 2024, the undergraduate program is organized around three tracks:
Starting in the 2024-2025 academic year, STAT 497 may replace the capstone project (STAT 496). For STAT 497 to replace the capstone project, in addition to the above characteristics an internship must also have the following :
STAT 220, STAT/CSSS/SOC 221, and STAT 311 are by far our most popular (and widely applicable) introductory courses. As illustrated in the flowchart below, STAT 311 is geared to students aiming for more quantitative disciplines: STAT, BUSINESS, ECON, and INFO among others. (It is, however, NOT intended for students in E.N.G.R., MATH, A.C.M.S. as these disciplines require STAT 390. Students should check requirements with their major advisors.) On the other hand, STAT 220 and STAT 221 focus on statistical literacy and logical thinking and are geared towards the non-mathematical student. The aim is to develop quantitative problem-solving skills as well as build a statistical vocabulary. If your interests are in the social sciences, and you would otherwise take STAT 220, consider STAT 221 instead.
STAT 311 and STAT 394 are among the pre-requisites for admission and therefore they are usually taken early in the sophomore year (Plan A), so that students can apply to the Stat major in Spring of their sophomore year. Once students enroll in the major, they should start working on the core major requirements by taking STAT 341 and STAT 342, which represent the statistical theory requirements, serve as pre-requisites for other core courses and give the foundations to understand Machine Learning classes (such as STAT 435) and other breadth requirements classes. STAT 302 and STAT 303 provide, respectively, the foundations of statistical computing and an understanding of the ethical implications of statistical decision-making algorithms. We expect students to take them either during their junior or their senior year. The senior year should be mainly dedicated to the capstone project and to electives; the specific courses will largely depend on the selected track and may require pre-requisites.
STAT 403 Introduction to Re-sampling Inference
STAT 416 is a popular choice among non-Statistics students who major in a Data Science track since it is a way to satisfy the machine learning requirements.
STAT 425 Introduction to Non-parametric Statistics
STAT 427 Introduction to Analysis of Categorical Data
STAT 428 Multivariate Analysis for the Social Sciences
STAT 441 Multivariate Statistical Methods
STAT 497 and CPT process summary
STAT 498 Special Topics
STAT 529: Sample Survey Techniques
STAT 534 Statistical Computing
STAT/CSE 180 is a relatively recent alternative which introduces the essential elements of data science. It is a good choice for students looking for a hybrid between a computer course and a statistics course. It is not intended for students who have taken statistics courses such as STAT 220, 221, 311 or 390 or programming courses like CSE 160.
Statistical and machine learning methodology: STAT 423, STAT 424, and STAT 435.
Statistical Consulting
Statistical theory: STAT 341 and STAT 342.
Statistics B.S.
Statistics B.S. | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Statistics B.S. Tracks
Statistics is also the art of story-telling through the use of data, and what could be better than using graphical visualizations to do so? As the saying goes, A picture is worth a thousand words! STAT 451 is a new class offered by the Statistics Department with the goal of providing students with a comprehensive understanding of data visualization techniques using R. This class requires some computational background (see course catalogue for details on the pre-requisites) and it is geared towards majors and non-majors interested in boosting their data visualization techniques, starting from fundamentals but going all the way to the design and creation of interactive dashboards.
Statistics is an increasingly important discipline, driven by the continuing proliferation of complex and rich data and by the evolution of the ways in which data are collected and used. Statistical analysis plays a central role in all disciplines that include making evidence-based decisions.
Statistics Minor
Statistics: Either STAT 311 (strongly recommended) or STAT 390.
Student Awards
Students
Students are expected to make satisfactory progress towards the attainment of the degree. Under normal circumstances, a Statistics major attending full-time would be considered making satisfactory progress if he/she/they complete all major prerequisites by the end of the Sophomore year (with 90 cumulative units) and completes the major requirements (core courses, major electives, and capstone) during Junior and Senior years. Students must complete at least one (1) course towards major requirements each quarter they enroll, with the exception of summer quarter OR complete a minimum of three (3) courses applicable toward their degree program in a year excluding summer quarter. Lack of academic progress may be evidenced by low scholarship as well as excessive course repeats, course drops, or University withdrawals and cancellations.
Students can choose between the following two options:
Students can earn 2 credits of STAT 497 for a full-time CPT and 1 credit of STAT 497 for a part-time opportunity.
Students have to submit an “Internship Evaluation Form” available below (see section "How to apply for internship credits"). As part of the form, students should upload the offer letter, job description, and supervisor contact details. The Department of Statistics will use the form to assess whether the internship aligns with the Statistics Program and meets the requirements listed below.
Students intending to pursue a double major in CSE/Stat should take CSE 121-122-123 rather than CSE 160-163 to satisfy their intro programing requirements in the Statistics B.S. The CSE 121-122-123 sequence satisfies lower-division requirements for both majors.
Students must be declared STAT majors and must have completed STAT 342 at the point of application.
Students must be enrolled in the quarter of the opportunity. Students enrolling in summer internship can defer enrollment to the following Autumn quarter.
Students must complete a reflection activity on Canvas in order to receive credit.
Students must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 and thereby avoid appearing on the University’s Low Scholarship list.
Students must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 in major requirements, with a minimum grade of 2.0 in each class used to satisfy major requirements (e.g., core courses, major electives, and capstone). Courses used to satisfy major requirements cannot be taken on a satisfactory/non-satisfactory basis except during UW sanctioned Extraordinary Circumstances Quarters.
Students on probation for two consecutive quarters will be dismissed from the Statistics major. The student will be notified in writing of the change in major status and will be re-coded as a pre-major or extended pre-major.
Students who enrolled before or in 2023
Students who have AP calculus and CS credits from high-school may be eligible to apply for admission to the Statistics major in their freshmen year (see Plan B).
Students who want to enroll in STAT 497 must submit the “Internships Credits” request form after receiving an offer letter and at least two weeks before the start of the internship. If students also need CPT, then they need to make the request at least two months before the intended start date . If applicable, ask your prospective employer to postpone your start date.
Students who will enroll in 2024 and after
Students will be notified of probation or dismissal from the major as soon as practicable after review of the previous quarter’s grade reports. Failure to meet one or more of the general expectations of satisfactory progress may also result in the following actions.
Students will be required to maintain a 2.7 GPA in each of the two courses corresponding to their chosen graduate sequence.
Students will enroll in 1 credit of STAT 497 if part-time (less than 20 hours a week).
Students will enroll in 2 credits of STAT 497 if the internship is full time (more than 20 hours a week).
Students wishing to apply to the statistics major must complete the online application by the due date and time ( see important dates above).
Studying statistics gives you the conceptual foundations and the necessary toolbox to intelligently extract information from the data and make insightful conclusions in any field of application. Having a deep understanding of theoretical, applied and ethical aspects of statistical analysis will make a difference in your career as well as giving you a solid background to pursue graduate studies.
Terms
The 2026 application cycle opened 04/03/2026 at 9am and it will close 04/17/2026 at 5pm
The Department of Statistics believes diversity is integral to the well-being of our programs in particular and the field of statistics in general.
The Department of Statistics offers various classes with the goal of introducing students to theory and applications of machine learning methodologies, technologies, and algorithms. The most popular options are STAT/CSE 416 and STAT 435. Students entering these classes should have some knowledge of probability, statistics, and algorithms, as reflected by these courses’ pre-requites (see the course catalog for more details on the pre-requisites). STAT/CSE 416 is a machine learning course designed for non-STAT and non-CSE majors and it requires some prior coursework in probability and statistics as well as a course in computer science. STAT/CSE 416 relies on programming in Python, while STAT 435 relies on programming in R. STAT 435 is geared towards Statistics majors and students with a stronger mathematical background. It covers similar topics to STAT/CSE 416, but it provides a deeper theoretical understanding of the methods.
The Department of Statistics welcomes students who are willing to pursue a double major or a double degree. Juggling the requirements of two majors can be very challenging. While you can find general information on UW’s requirements for double majors and double degrees at this link , on this page we include details that should facilitate students who are pursuing a double major or double degree with Statistics. In particular, the Department of Statistics is working with other departments at UW to create preapproved paths which include courses that can and cannot double count towards the major. Please note that this is only a suggestion and students do not have to follow our pre-approved path.
The department welcomes students who are interested in pursuing the Statistics B.S. as part of a double major. A statistics degree can be a very good complement to many other degrees in the natural, health and social sciences. The only exception is the B.S. in Applied and Computational Mathematical Sciences (ACMS), whose content significantly overlaps with that of the Statistics major. Thus, double majoring in Statistics and ACMS is not allowed.
The Department will evaluate internships' offers and, if considered inherent to the major, an add-code for STAT 497 will be issued. At the end of the internship, credits for STAT 497 will be awarded. If your internship is not integral to the Statistics major, but can be considered to be at least 50% engineering, you might want to explore the options available through the Engineering Internship Program . Alternatively, the Community Engagement and Leadership Education Center offers the opportunity to earn credit for the demonstrated learning derived from an internship experience.
The following flow-charts will help you understand the STAT 300 level courses and their pre-requisites. For a full list of courses please see this page .
The form must be submitted for approval before starting the internship.
The goal of the Honors Program is to provide students with the opportunity to generate new and deeper learning either by performing independent research or completing graduate-level coursework. It represents a valuable opportunity for students who do and do not intend to apply for graduate school by letting them be mentored by faculty and allowing them to demonstrate commitment and discipline. The honors program is a gateway to a more profound understanding of statistical concepts and preparing students for leadership roles in academia and in industry.
The internship must be at least 50% in-person
The internship must involve at least 400 hours over a period of 2 consecutive months and no more than six consecutive months on the same project. This means that students could:
The internship must involve at least 50% Statistics-related work.
The internship must occur after completing STAT 341.
The internship must occur after completing STAT 342 - Students who declare the STAT major in or after 2025, will have to have taken STAT 435 to be eligible for STAT 497 credits in line with STAT 496 prerequisites.
The internship must take place in the United States unless it is part of the UW Study Abroad Program.
The MATH 124-125-126-208 (or, alternatively, MATH 134-135-135) sequence satisfies lower-division mathematics requirements for both majors.
The MATH 124-125-126-208 (or, alternatively, MATH 134-135-135) sequence satisfies lower-division mathematics requirements for both majors. It can be double counted.
The program is characterized by an active community of students and Faculty that engages in several extra-curricular activities including the Directed Reading Program , DataFest and the Statistics and Probability Association .
The request form will require you to include whether you need a CPT or not, the original job posting and a detailed training description from your employer. The description must be written on the company’s letterhead, be addressed to you, include a job title, provide a detailed job description (minimum a few sentences describing specific duties), the street address where employment will take place, number of hours you will work per week and the start and end dates of the employment.
The Statistics Department offers several introductory courses which provide Natural World (NW) and Quantitative and Symbolic Reasoning (QSR) general education credits. Each course is geared towards a slightly different audience. For a full description of these courses, content and prerequisites, please visit our course catalog .
The Statistics Department will review the performance of undergraduate students after each quarter. If a student fails to meet the general expectations of satisfactory progress outlined above in any quarter in the program, the following actions will be invoked.
The Statistics major at the University of Washington combines a strong mathematical foundation with statistical thinking, inference, computation, and applied modeling. Students graduating with this major should be prepared for careers in science, industry, government positions, or for further academic studies in statistics. Specifically, majors should have the following skills and abilities:
The student may receive up to five credit hours of W course credit for writing the thesis based upon the University of Washington guidelines for W credits and on the discretion of the faculty supervisor.
The system of three tracks and the Honors Program allow a great deal of flexibility in the curriculum: the major prepares students for graduate studies, as well as to be competitive on the job market and it encourages students interested in pursuing a double major or double degree to do so. Students also have the opportunity of engaging in internships as an integral part of their training.
The undergraduate program is organized around three tracks:
The University of Washington is a great place to study Statistics. As with many other programs at UW, the Statistics B.S. is capacity-constrained: the number of interested students exceeds the number of student places that are available.
The UW community is committed to maintaining the highest level of academic integrity. Cheating (in all its forms) will have serious consequences. Please, visit the UW Academic Misconduct page for more details on academic misconduct.
their transcripts,
Thesis
Thesis option : Students who choose the thesis option must already have an advisor when they apply to the Honors program. The student and their advisor must agree on a project and submit a title and a project proposal of 300-600 words as part of their application. Identifying an advisor and agreeing on a project with their advisor is the student’s responsibility.
This is a constrained capacity program and satisfying the minimum admission requirements does not guarantee acceptance. The Department of Statistics will only accept a small proportion of each cohort into the honors program. The minimum requirements are the following:
Three courses, 300-level or higher, offered by another department that form a coherent sequence. Subject to departmental approval. Here are some examples of a “coherent sequence of three courses”:
Three electives, each at least 3 credits each, chosen from either the general electives list or the computing electives list.
Three electives, each at least 3 credits, each from either the general electives list or the computing electives list .
Three interdisciplinary courses that form a coherent program (see "Interdisciplinary electives" below).
To learn more about careers in Statistics, visit This is Statistics!
Toggle navigation
Transfer Credit Evaluations
Transfer students need to be admitted to UW before they can apply to the Statistics major. Once admitted, they can apply to the Statistics major in Spring following the procedure outlined above. Currently, the Department of Statistics does not consider Direct to Major admissions for transfer students.
Transferring from another university or community college
Undergrad Opportunities
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington
Upload an image which represents one example of either a good OR a bad visual representation of data. This could be a graphic from a newspaper or website, a figure from a research article, or something from a class you took (it does not need to be a statistics class). Do not include data or images that were in any way generated by LLMs.
Upper division courses: 19 credits (CSE 446/STAT 435: 4 credits, SOC 225/STAT 303: 3 credits, CSE 442: 4 credits, CSE 444: 4 credits, CSE 332: 4 credits).
Upper division courses: up to 15 credits (3 credits for 394, 9 credits for either MATH 300-327-424 or MATH/STAT 395-491-492/3, and 3 credits for MATH 318).
Use statistical software to explore, summarize, analyze, and model data by numerical, graphical, or other means in a reproducible manner .
UW Home
UW Menu
We are committed to providing a well-rounded education that combines academic rigor with hands-on training in a supportive, socially responsible and inclusive environment that offers access and opportunity for all.
We recommend taking the data science track to students who are willing to double major with CSE. Below we provide some parameters for managing course overlap and for double counting courses across both majors under that assumption:
We recommend taking the mathematical statistics track to students who are willing to double major with Mathematics. Below we provide some parameters for managing course overlap and for double counting courses across both majors under that assumption:
We welcome applicants with varied cultural and personal experiences and from varying socio-economic and academic backgrounds.
What will you do when you graduate?
What will you learn?
When to apply for internship or CPT credits
Which Statistics Course?
Why Statistics?
With Direct to Major admission, freshmen applicants have the possibility of being admitted directly to the Statistics program as majors. Students coming in through this pathway are assured a spot in the major as long as they satisfy the continuation and honesty policy .
Working Groups
