Owner: uw-seattle-political-science:pathway:international-security-and-political-economy-option-courses
Source: https://www.polisci.washington.edu/political-science-major-declaration-and-requirements
Title: Political Science Major Declaration and Requirements | Department of Political Science | University of Washington

(1) POLS 500 - Political Research Design and Analysis (Fall of first year)
(2) POLS 501 - Advanced Political Research Design and Analysis (Winter of first year)
(3) POLS 503 - Advanced Quantitative Research Methods (Spring of first year) OR one course from a list of Qualitative and Mixed-Methods Courses . Students using the qualitative or mixed-method course option must take this course before completing the MA. See the Political Methodology field requirements for a list of accepted qualitative and mixed method courses, as well as procedures for petitioning for alternative courses to fulfill this option.
[Supplemental official source] Requirements
1) Email polsadvc@uw.edu with the following information:
2) If you need to talk with a Political Science adviser, make an appointment .
A Political Science adviser will contact you with instructions on how to complete submission of your application. In some cases, the adviser may need to meet with you before submitting the application.
Admissions
After completing course requirements for each of a students’ three fields they sit a comprehensive exam in order to prove their expertise in each area. The student takes each exam in the same quarter, followed by an oral exam . For more information on each exam structure and schedule, visit the field page. The methodology field does not require a comprehensive field exam.
American Politics
An appointment is recommended only if you have questions or concerns about graduation that need to be discussed with an adviser.
Apply for the option when you have completed at least 6 courses or when you apply to graduate. Students who complete the international security option will receive the notation Political Science: International Security on their UW transcript.
Apply for the option when you have completed at least 6 courses or when you apply to graduate. Students who complete the political economy option will receive the notation Political Science: Political Economy on their UW transcript.
Comparative Politics
Courses
Demonstration of competence in a foreign language is not required for the Ph.D. Should the student select a field(s) where the supervisory committee believes that competence in a language would be beneficial, they will be so advised.
Download the requirements and courses lists for the International Security Option:
Download the requirements and courses lists from the Political Economy Option:
Expected Graduation Quarter
For students entering in September 2023, see the following requirements .
For students entering on or after September 2024:
For students who entered in or prior to September 2022, see the following requirements .
Foreign Language Requirement
Funding
Graduate
Graduating Senior Priority : Up to 2 quarters before your graduation quarter (for example, apply in autumn to graduate in spring). Quarterly deadlines are posted on UW's Academic Calendar .
Honors Programs: Departmental Honors and/or College/Interdisciplinary Honors
How to Apply to Graduate
If you are already declared in your minor(s), you are all set. If you are not already declared in your minor(s), your Political Science adviser will submit that form when you apply to graduate. If you are completing an interdisciplinary minor (Global Health, Diversity, Human Rights, etc.), you will need to see the adviser for that minor to complete your graduation application.
If you attended a Washington State community college, see the Transfer Equivalency Guide to see how courses will transfer to UW. The Office of Admissions evaluates and awards transfer credit according to UW transfer policies . See a Political Science adviser if you have questions about how Admissions has evaluated your coursework taken at other schools.
In order to graduate, students need a minimum cumulative major GPA of at least 2.25. If your cumulative political science GPA has dropped below 2.25, consult with a Political Science adviser .
International Security Option
International Security Option (PDF)
Methodology Requirement
Minimum Major G.P.A. for Graduation
Minors
Minors that you are completing, including if you need to add or drop a minor
No more than 20 credits can be used to satisfy both the option and the requirements for any other major. Courses that are not in Pol S (courses offered by departments other than Pol S) fulfill only elective coursework towards the option, not major requirements.
OR
Other majors/degrees that you are completing. You must apply for graduation with each program.
Ph.C. and Ph.D.
Placement Record
Political Economy Option
Political Economy Option (PDF)
Political Science MA Requirement
Political Science Major That You Are Completing: General Major, Political Economy Option, or International Security Option
Program Overview
Programs & Courses
Public Law
Quarterly Graduation Application Deadline: Third Friday of the quarter you intend to graduate.
Requirements
Share
Students entering the graduate program are expected to complete the MA degree (40 credits minimum) within two years. After completing the methodology courses, two core courses, and generally two to three additional courses in two fields, the graduate student will complete a Paper of Distinction and an oral examination, to demonstrate substantive field knowledge and the ability to synthesize and apply that knowledge to new problems.
Students intending to work primarily in the field of Political Theory may apply for an exemption to requirements (2) and (3) above. This application should be made to a faculty member in the field of Political Theory, the Political Methodology Field Coordinator and the Chair of the Graduate Program Committee prior to the end of their first quarter enrolled in the program. Students seeking this exemption should note that its use may limit access to other opportunities within the program, potentially including certain coursework, advisors, and committee members in fields other than political theory.
Successful completion of the general exam , the oral defense of the dissertation prospectus, constitutes advancement to candidacy for the doctoral student, or PhC status. A candidate then completes the research and writes the dissertation for faculty review. A final exam , otherwise known as the dissertation defense , and committee approval of the doctoral dissertation complete the departmental degree requirements.
The doctorate usually takes an additional three to four years beyond the M.A. (92 credits minimum, including at least 27 credits for the dissertation). Students must pass comprehensive written and oral exams in each of the three fields, followed by the general exam , and finally the final exam or dissertation defense .
The following courses are required unless a special exemption is granted by the Graduate Program Coordinator and the Methods Field Coordinator. Students should take these courses in the order and quarters listed.
The International Security Option is for students interested in an in-depth study of international security. It is not an official major or minor or track but an optional program of study. Students who elect to follow this option must satisfy both the 50 credits required for the general Political Science Major and the additional credits for the option requirements. Up to 25 credits may overlap between the Pol S major and the option.
The M.A. Paper of Distinction is a highly polished paper of approximately forty pages in length. They often build upon papers begun in seminars.
The Political Economy Option is for students interested in an in-depth study of political economy. It is not an official major or minor or track but an optional program of study. Students who elect to follow this option must satisfy both the 50 credits required for the general Political Science Major and the additional credits for the option requirements. Up to 25 credits may overlap between the Pol S major and the option.
The study of international security focuses on the relationship between politics and security, and specifically on the causes of war and the use and control of force: threats, promises, and the tactics, techniques, and ethics of violence. It teaches the theories and the historical context for understanding contemporary security issues.
The study of political economy concentrates on the relationship between politics and economics. It involves the application of economic theory to the analysis of non market behavior and examination of the interplay between governmental and economic institutions. It teaches the use of theoretical tools for analyzing contemporary problems. To learn more, listen to the "What Is Political Economy?" podcast recorded by faculty in the Political Science and Economics Departments.
To apply for graduation with Political Science:
Transfer Credit
Undergraduate
UW NetID
UW Student #
UWISC: International Security Colloquium: We encourage students interested in the option to attend talks sponsored by the UW International Security Colloquium (UWISC). UWISC sponsors nine speakers a year from the across the US and Europe, as well as UW faculty and students. See the International Security Colloquium page for the list of upcoming talks and subscribe to the International Security Listserv for notifications.
When to Apply
Your Full Name as it is listed in your Student Record
