Owner: uw-seattle-jewish-studies:pathway:asian-studies-southeast-asia-concentration
Source: https://jsis.washington.edu/programs/undergraduate/jewish-studies/
Title: Jewish Studies - Major - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies

– Israel Studies Program
– Sephardic Studies Program
(206) 543-6001
(a max. of 5 cr.
(Winter)
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – China Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – Japan Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – Korea Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – South Asia Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Asian Studies – Southeast Asia Concentration
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
&copy; 2026 Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington | Seattle, WA
<iframe src="https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-KMF8KQZ"
<svg version="1.1" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
10
10 additional cr. China Studies courses
10 additional cr. in one area: Modern, Pre-modern or Arts & Literature
15
2023 Skagit Lane, Thomson Hall , Box 353650 Seattle, WA 98195-3650
25
2nd Asian Civilization Course
3-400 level
30
5
5 cr. Arts & Literature
5 cr. Pre-modern ,
A minimum of ten credits from the following list of core South Asia courses
About
About the Jackson School
Academic Programs
Academic Services
Additional Requirements
Admin
adviser approval)
Advising
Advising Questions
African Studies – Minor
African Studies Program
ANTH 314 Ethnography, Transnationalism, & Community in Island Southeast Asia/Asian Americans (5)
Apply
Arctic and International Relations
Arctic Studies – Minor
Asian Civilization Course
Asian Research Paper written with Jackson School Professor 15 pgs.
Asian Studies - China Concentration
Asian Studies - China Concentration - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies
Asian Studies - Japan Concentration
Asian Studies - Japan Concentration - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies
Asian Studies - Korea Concentration
Asian Studies - Korea Concentration - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies
Asian Studies - Major
Asian Studies - South Asia Concentration
Asian Studies - South Asia Concentration - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies
Asian Studies - Southeast Asia Concentration
Asian Studies - Southeast Asia Concentration - The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies
Asian Studies – China Concentration
Asian Studies – Japan Concentration
Asian Studies – Korea Concentration
Asian Studies – Major
Asian Studies – South Asia Concentration
Asian Studies – Southeast Asia Concentration
Asian Traditions
Autumn
Autumn / Winter
Autumn 2026 Courses by Category – SUBJECT TO CHANGE
Back to top
Canadian Studies Center
Capstone Courses: 2026-27 Academic Year
Careers & Internships
Center for Global Studies
Center for Human Rights
Center for Japanese Studies
Center for Korea Studies
Center for Southeast Asia and its Diasporas
Center for West European Studies
Centers & Research
China
China Electives
China in the Twentieth Century
China Studies – Minor
China Studies Program
Chinese Language
Chinese Language proficiency through 2nd year college level or 3rd quarter of 2nd year college level.(For first- and second-year language courses, grades must average 2.00)
Choose (3-400 level) to include:
Choose (3-400 level) to include: min. 15 cr. from Japan Social Science,and additional 10 cr. from Social Science or Japan Humanities/Arts & Literature
Choose from approved upper-level electives
Click here for an online checklist of course requirements
Close Menu
Comparative Islamic Studies – Minor
Comparative Religion
Comparative Religion – Major
Comparative Religion – Minor
Connect with Us
Contact Us
Course #
Course Lists
Coursework Requirements
Credits
Current Quarter Courses
Cybersecurity Initiative
Diversity and Equity
E: jsis@uw.edu
East Asia
East Asia Center
East Asia Resource Center
Electives – 25 credits from the list of approved South Asia electives, found below.
Ellison Center for Russian, East European and Central Asian Studies
European Studies – Major
European Studies – Minor
European Union Center
Events
Executive Master of International Studies
Facebook
Faculty & Affiliate Faculty
Funding Opportunities
General Questions
General questions about Academic Services, course add codes, requesting an independent study or internship course, directions around campus, or help finding student resources.
Give Now
Global Research Group
Graduate Programs
Graduation
height="0" width="0" style="display:none;visibility:hidden">
Hellenic Studies – Minor
Hellenic Studies Program
History of Chinese Civilization or
History of Korean Civilization
History of Modern Japan
History of Modern Korea
History of Traditional Korea or Comparative Politics and Korea Studies
Home
HSTAS 201 South Asian History pre-history to 1500
HSTAS 201, 202, 211, JSIS A 206, 212, 221
HSTAS 211 or
HSTAS 212
HSTAS 401 – History of Ancient India
HSTAS 402 – History of Medieval and Mughal India
HSTAS 403 – History of Modern India
HSTAS 404 – History of Twentieth-Century India
HSTAS 481 or JSIS A 466
HSTAS 482
HSTAS: 201, 211, JSIS A 202, 205, 206, 212, 241, 242
Human Rights – Minor
Instagram
International Policy Institute
International Studies General – Minor
International Technology Studies Minor
Introduction to Contemporary Japan
Jackson School Journal
Jackson School Student Association
Japan
Japan Electives List
Japan Electives3-400 level
Japan Studies – Minor
Japan Studies Courses
Japanese Civilization or
Japanese Language
Japanese Language proficiency through 2nd year college level or 3rd quarter of 2nd year college level.(For first- and second-year language courses, grades must average 2.00)
Jewish Studies – Major
Jewish Studies – Minor
Journal of Japanese Studies
JSIS 201
JSIS 201 – The Making of the Twenty-first Century (5 credits)
JSIS 203 – Rise of Asia
JSIS 203 or
JSIS 203 or JSIS A 207
JSIS A 205 Filipino Histories (5)
JSIS A 206 Contemporary India & Pakistan
JSIS A 207
JSIS A 207 – Asian Traditions
JSIS A 221 History of Southeast Asia (5)
JSIS A 241 or JSIS A 242
JSIS A 254
JSIS A 265 The Viet Nam Wars (5)
JSIS A 315 Southeast Asia Civilization: Buddhist and Vietnamese (5)
JSIS A 423
JSIS A 461 – Ramayana in Comparative Perspective
JSIS A 485 – Special Topics on South Asia
JSIS A/ ANTH 448
JSIS A/ GEOG 438 – Social and Political Geographies of South Asia
JSIS A/ANTH 316 – Modern South Asia
JSIS A/ANTH 339 – Social Movements in Contemporary India
JSIS A/ANTH 341 – Political Violence and the Post-Colonial State in South Asia
JSIS A/HSTAS 202 South Asian History 1500-present
JSIS A/HSTAS 303 – Divided Lands/Divided Lives: An Environmental History of South Asia
JSIS A/POL S 340 – Politics of India, Pakistan, and South Asia
JSIS A/POL S 417 – Political Economy of India
JSIS B 264 Violence, Race, and Memory (5)
JSIS Business Office
JSIS Centers, Programs, and Initiatives
JSIS Intranet
jsisadv@uw.edu
jsisoas@uw.edu
Korea
Korea Electives
Korea Electives List
Korea Studies – Minor
Korea Studies Courses
Korean Language
Language requirement – Students must achieve proficiency in a South Asian language through 2nd year college level. Accepted languages include Bengali, Hindi, Nepali, Sanskrit, Tibetan, and Urdu. Students must earn an average GPA of 2.0 in first and second year language courses.
Latest News
Latin America and Caribbean Studies
Latin America and Caribbean Studies – Minor
Latin American and Caribbean Studies – Major
LinkedIn
Looking for help?
Make a Gift
Max Lower Division Credit – No more than 5 of the 35 credits for the South Asia concentration core and electives may be at the 200-level
Meet an Adviser
Middle East Center
Middle East Studies – Minor
Minimum Grade
Minimum Grade – A minimum grade of 2.0 is required for all courses applied to major
Minimum grade 2.0 in all courses applied to major.
Modern Korean Society
News & Events
of 200-level may be applied w/
One Asian Civilization course chosen from:
One Asian Civilization course chosen from: HSTAS 201, 202, 211, JSIS A 206, 221, 241, 242, 254, RELIG 202
One Asian Civilization course chosen from:HSTAS 201, 202, 211; JSIS A 206, 212, 221, 241, 242
One of the following two courses, taken autumn or winter quarter (5 credits)
One South Asia history course from the following list
Pathways
Paull Shin Korea Studies Program
People
Ph.D. Students
Portuguese Language and Luso-Brazillian Studies – Minor
Privacy
Proficiency through 2nd year college level or 3rd quarter of 2nd year college level.(For first- and second-year language courses, grades must average 2.00)
Program on Strategy, Policy, and Diplomacy Research
Quarter
Quick Links
Related Regions
RELIG 352 – Hinduism
RELIG 354 – Buddhism
RELIG 356 – Buddhism & Society: The Theravada Buddhist Tradition in South & SE Asia
RELIG 356 Buddhism and Society: The Theravada Buddhist Tradition in South and Southeast Asia (5)
RELIG 456 – Perceptions of the Feminine Divine in Hinduism
Research Paper
Research Paper – Students must work with a South Asia Studies professor to write a final research paper of at least 15 pages in length. This must be written in an upper division South Asia Studies course and may need to be expanded to meet the research paper requirements. Students should coordinate with the professor prior to writing to ensure the paper will meet the requirements.
Resident Credit – 30 credits must be taken in residence through UW (not including 1st or 2nd year language).
Rise of Asia or
Rise of Asia or Asian Traditions
Russia, East Europe and Central Asia Studies – Minor
See a student profile of a Jackson School major’s in-depth study of contemporary Korean dramas.
Sign up for the newsletter
Skip to main content
SoundCloud
South Asia
South Asia Center
South Asia includes India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Maldives, Afghanistan and Tibet. Students are expected to gain proficiency in a South Asian language (Hindi, Urdu, Bengali and Sanskrit are offered regularly at all levels) and to pursue a course of study that includes both disciplinary concentration and interdisciplinary breadth. Students have opportunities to pursue language study in India through the program’s membership in the American Institute of Indian Studies. Other organizations provide similar opportunities for study in many of the other countries of the region.
South Asia Studies – Minor
South Asia Studies Courses
Southeast Asia
Southeast Asia – primary electives
Southeast Asia Core
Southeast Asia electives
Southeast Asia Studies – Minor
Southeast Asia Studies Courses
Southeast Asian Language
Southeast Asian Language proficiency through 2nd year college level or 3rd quarter of 2nd year college level. Burmese, Indonesian, Khmer, Tagalog, Thai, Vietnamese. (For first- and second-year language courses, grades must average 2.00)
Spring 2026 Courses by Category
Staff Directory
Stroum Center for Jewish Studies
Student Resources
Students can meet with an adviser to discuss courses, majors, minors, study abroad, or fellowship and scholarship opportunities.
Study Abroad Office
Summer 2026 Courses by Category – SUBJECT TO CHANGE
T: (206) 543-4370
Taiwan Studies Program
Terms
The China concentration in Asian Studies provides students with a sound foundation in one or more aspects of the study of China. The faculty has particular strength in history, both modern and pre-modern, as well as the social sciences. In addition, an extensive range of outstanding courses is available in the areas of language and literature. Students in the China Program are encouraged to take advantage of intensive overseas language training offered by the Inter-University Program in Taipei or the Beijing Chinese Language Program available through Beijing University.
The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies
The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies / College of Arts and Sciences / University of Washington
The Henry M. Jackson School of International Studies, University of Washington
The Jackson School is a proud member of the Association of Professional Schools of International Affairs .
The Japan concentration combines language training with interdisciplinary study to give students a solid background in one or more areas of Japanese studies. Students are offered courses to an advanced level in the following: interdisciplinary studies, economics, business, political science, history, art, literature, and language. Advanced language training is available through the Inter-University Center for Japanese Language Studies in Yokohama, of which the University of Washington is a sponsoring member.
The Making of the Twenty-first Century
The Paull Shin Korea Studies Program focuses on Korea within the broader context of East Asia. While it concentrates on the history, society, and language of Korea, courses on China and Japan are also an important part of the curriculum. In addition, visiting professors in other disciplines regularly complement the resident faculty.
The Southeast Asian Studies concentration promotes the study of Viet Nam, Laos, Cambodia, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Burma, Singapore, Brunei, Timor Loro’sae and the Philippines. Core courses introducing students to the cultures and societies of the region are offered in the Jackson School and in the Departments of Anthropology and History. Additional courses are offered by the Departments of Geography, Asian Languages and Literature, Political Science, Sociology, and in the School of Public Health. Language instruction in Burmese, Khmer, and Thai is offered within the Jackson School of International Studies. Indonesian and Vietnamese are taught by teaching professors in the department of Asian Languages & Literature, and Tagalog is offered by the department of American Ethnic Studies.
Title
Total Credits (not including language: 50
Total Credits (not including language) 50
Total Credits (not including language): 50
Two of the following:
Undergraduate Minors
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington
UW MyPlan
Varies
Visiting Scholars
Website Login
width="18.776px" height="51.062px" viewBox="0 0 18.776 51.062" enable-background="new 0 0 18.776 51.062" xml:space="preserve">
Winter
Winter (sometimes)
Winter & Spring
Winter 2026 Courses by Category
Winter or Spring
Writing Center
X
YouTube
