Owner: uw-seattle-classics
Source: https://classics.washington.edu/ba-classics
Title: B.A. in Classics | Department of Classics | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Admissions
[Supplemental official source] B.A. in Classical Studies
[Supplemental official source] B.A. in Greek
[Supplemental official source] B.A. in Latin
[Supplemental official source] M.A. Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Ph.D. Requirements
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
10 credits from approved classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, the history of ancient philosophy, and the history of ancient science. See list of acceptable courses .
15 credits of 300-level classical Greek, excluding GREEK 300, GREEK 301
15 credits of 300-level GREEK courses, excluding GREEK 300 and GREEK 301
15 credits of 300-level LATIN courses, excluding LATIN 300 and LATIN 301
15 credits of 300-level Latin, excluding LATIN 300, LATIN 301
15 credits of 400-level GREEK courses
15 credits of 400-level LATIN courses
262 Denny Hall
34 additional credits chosen with department approval from the following courses: Greek and Latin at the 400 level; classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, the history of ancient philosophy, and the history of ancient science. See list of acceptable courses .
400-level Latin/Greek Overview
5 credits from approved classics in English, classical art and archaeology, ancient history, the history of ancient philosophy, and the history of ancient science. See list of acceptable courses .
A B.A. in Classical Studies opens the door to exploring the literature, history, art, archaeology and philosophy of the ancient Greeks and Romans, primarily through English translations. Students see the lasting influence of these complex civilizations in our civic, professional, intellectual, and cultural lives through a variety of learning opportunities: interactive language classes, specialized courses on topics ranging from gender and sexuality to STEM in the ancient world, and affordable study abroad opportunities. From this work, they develop intermediate skills in ancient Greek or Latin, as well as advanced skills in innovative analysis, creative and collaborative problem solving, and outstanding, persuasive communication. Graduates pursue careers in a variety of fields such as education, law, journalism, business and entrepreneurship, and health sciences.
A dissertation approved by the student’s Supervisory Committee, and an oral examination on the dissertation.
A minimum of three academic years of graduate study, of which at least two must be at the University of Washington and one, in full-time residence at the University for three out of four consecutive quarters.
About
About Us
Admissions
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Advising
AIA Puget Sound Society
Alumni
Alumni Update
An oral general examination on Greek and Roman history, literature, and related subjects. This examination may be taken only after completion of requirements 2-5; upon passing it, the student is admitted to candidacy for the Ph.D.
Annual Faculty Lecture on Classical Culture
Annual Teachers&#039; Conference
Application Procedures
Applications for admission WITH FUNDING are due on January 5. Applications to the Graduate School WITHOUT consideration for an Assistantship or Fellowship are accepted until July 1 for Autumn Quarter, November 1 for Winter Quarter, February 1 for Spring Quarter, and May 15 for Summer Quarter, but students are encouraged to apply by the January 5th deadline.
B.A. in Classical Studies
B.A. in Classical Studies | Department of Classics | University of Washington
B.A. in Classics
B.A. in Classics | Department of Classics | University of Washington
B.A. in Greek
B.A. in Greek | Department of Classics | University of Washington
B.A. in Latin
B.A. in Latin | Department of Classics | University of Washington
Box 353110
Calendar
Careers
CLAS 495, the Senior Essay (2-3 credits)
clasdept@uw.edu
College of Arts & Sciences
Competence in reading German and French or German and Italian, demonstrated by passing Departmental examinations.
Contact Us
Courses
Current Year Overview
Degree Requirements
Department Faculty
Department of Classics
Directories
Dissertations
Diversity & Equity
Either GREEK 101, GREEK 102, GREEK 103; or GREEK 300, GREEK 301 (10-15 credits)
Either Greek or Latin through 307, or the equivalent (25-30 credits)
Either LATIN 101, LATIN 102, LATIN 103; or LATIN 300, LATIN 301 (10-15 credits)
Events
Facebook
Fact Sheet
Faculty
Faculty and TA
Featured Courses
Fields of Interest
Financial support
Financial Support
For Master of Arts in Greek, Latin, or Classics:
For Ph.D. in Classics:
Fulfillment of all Graduate School requirements (see the University’s General Catalog).
Fulfillment of Graduate School Requirements for the MA, including filing a Master's Degree Request .
Full Directory
Graduate
Graduate Admission Requirements
Graduate Admission Requirements | Department of Classics | University of Washington
Graduate Courses
Graduate courses (or the equivalent) in Greek and Latin composition.
Graduate Students & TAs
Graduate students are expected to have teaching experience before completing their terminal degrees.
Harmon Lectures
Home
Honors
M.A. Requirements
M.A. Requirements | Department of Classics | University of Washington
Mailing List
Main menu
Majors
Make a Gift
Maps
McDiarmid Lectures
Menu
Minimum 30 credits in 400-level GREEK and LATIN courses, with at least 10 credits in each language
Minors
Mission
MyUW
News & Events
News Feed
Newsletter
Ninety credits in courses approved by the Department as applicable toward an advanced degree. At least half of these credits (which include dissertation credits) must be at the 500-level or above.
Non-Degree Study
NOTE: ADMISSION TO GRADUATE PROGRAM IS SUSPENDED FOR THE CURRENT ACADEMIC CYCLE. WE EXPECT TO RESUME ADMISSIONS NEXT YEAR FOR THE FALL OF 2027.
On Campus & Beyond
People
Ph.D. in Classics
Ph.D. Reading List
Ph.D. Requirements
Ph.D. Requirements | Department of Classics | University of Washington
Phone: (206) 543-2266
Placement of Ph.D.s
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources. The Classics Department Undergraduate Program Coordinator is ready to help you if you have any further questions.
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Projects
Prospective graduate students should have as strong a preparation as possible in Latin and Greek, preferably a full undergraduate major. Although the M.A. may be attained with work in only one of the languages, students who plan to work toward the Ph.D. must be prepared to do graduate work in both Latin and Greek.
Publications
Questions? Please contact the Department of Classics' Graduate Program Coordinator Professor Olga Levaniouk ( olevan@uw.edu )
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Related Faculty
Requirements for the major in Classical Studies (61-67 credits) are:
Requirements for the major in Classics (67-68 credits) are:
Requirements for the major in Greek (52-58 credits) are:
Requirements for the major in Latin (52-58 credits) are:
Research
Resources
Resources & Opportunities
Scheduled Offerings
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-3110
See also more info about combining a major in Classical Studies with preparation for medical school or other health sciences professional programs
Senior Essay
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Staff
Standards of Progress
Stay Connected
Student Resources
Students who earn a B.A. in Latin investigate a civilization that still deeply influences our cultural, intellectual, professional and civic lives. Through cultural surveys, specialized courses on topics from Roman historians to slavery in the ancient world, and affordable study abroad opportunities, they build advanced expertise in Latin and the literature and culture of ancient Rome. They also develop a new perspective on issues and challenges that humanity has grappled with for centuries. With skills in innovative analysis, creative and collaborative problem solving, and outstanding, persuasive communication, graduates pursue careers in a variety of fields such as education, law, journalism, business and entrepreneurship, and health sciences.
Students who intend to continue their studies to the Ph.D. degree are advised to take the B.A. in Classics or, alternatively, the B.A. in Latin or in Greek with as many courses as possible in the second language.
Students who major in Classics study and analyze the languages and cultures of the ancient Greeks and Romans. Their investigations promote an improved understanding of these civilizations’ cultural, intellectual, professional, and civic lives — as well as our own. Through interactive language classes, specialized courses on topics ranging from STEM to status in the ancient world, and affordable study abroad opportunities, they develop advanced proficiency in the languages, literatures and cultures of both ancient Greece and ancient Rome. They cultivate skills in innovative analysis, creative and collaborative problem solving, and outstanding, persuasive communication, enabling them to pursue careers in a variety of fields such as education, law, journalism, business and entrepreneurship, and health sciences. This degree also provides excellent preparation for the study of the ancient world at the graduate level.
Study Abroad
Summary of Exams
Summer Study
Support Classics
Support Us
Terms
The application to our graduate program is completed and submitted online. Instructions on how to apply, with a link to the online application, may be found in the Application Procedures section of our website .
The Classical Studies major is especially suited for students not preparing for graduate study in classics but wishing to explore the literature, history, art, archaeology, and philosophy of classical antiquity, primarily through English translation. Those with no previous exposure to ancient Greek or Latin can complete the Classical Studies major in two years.
Through the B.A. in Greek, students analyze a complex civilization of people whose ideologies and practices still guide daily life in communities around the globe. They gain advanced expertise in the language, literature, and culture of ancient Greece, which enriches their perspective on issues that are still under debate in our cultural, intellectual, professional and civic lives. Through interactive language classes, specialized courses on topics ranging from epic, tragic, and comic poetry to religion and sports in the ancient Greek and Roman world, and affordable study abroad opportunities, they build skills in innovative analysis, creative and collaborative problem-solving, and outstanding, persuasive communication. Graduates pursue careers in a variety of fields such as education, law, journalism, business and entrepreneurship, and health sciences.
Translation exams on Greek and Latin literature. Reading lists in each language guide the student’s preparation for these exams.
Twenty-seven credits in courses and seminars approved by the Department as applicable toward an advanced degree and either a) 9 additional credits and a research paper or b) a thesis (9 credits). At least 18 of the total 36 credits must be at the 500-level or above.
Two written examinations on focused topics in Classical studies, one primarily Greek and the other primarily Roman. Such topics might include a specific author or genre; or, e.g., a literary theme or cultural institution; a historical period, or an area of social or intellectual history; an area of art history or archaeology; Athenian or Roman topography; a technical skill such as epigraphy, linguistics, metrics, or palaeography. These examinations will assume a deep familiarity with the relevant texts and/or material evidence, together with important secondary works and trends in scholarship. They must be taken before the doctoral orals, but normally may be taken only after the translation examination in the corresponding language has been passed.
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Bulletin Board
University of Washington
Upcoming Events
User account menu
Washington
We also offer a Minor in Classical Studies .
We also offer a Minor in Greek and an Honors Program .
We also offer a Minor in Latin and an Honors Program .
We also offer an Honors Program .
Written preliminary examinations:
You are here
