Owner: uw-seattle-music-education-b-m
Source: https://music.washington.edu/bachelor-music-music-education-instrumental-emphasis
Title: Bachelor of Music - Music Education, Instrumental Emphasis | School of Music | University of Washington

Home
Programs & Courses
Undergraduate Degrees
Bachelor of Music
Bachelor of Music - Music Education, Instrumental Emphasis
Music Education with Teaching Certification (Instrumental/General Emphasis)
Admission to the Bachelor of Music is intended for especially qualified students who wish to emphasize professional training in music education within a four ‐ year program. Music majors are required to earn a minimum grade of 2.0 in each music course (core and elective) that is to count toward Music degree requirements. A GPA of 2.5 in Music is required for graduation. A minimum of 180 credits is required, of which at least 60 must be taken in departments other than the School of Music. These 60 credits may include courses required to satisfy general education requirements .
Admission
The major in Music Education at the School of Music is a program leading to a Bachelor of Music Education degree. Upon completion of full‐time student teaching, students will also receive certification to teach music (grades K ‐ 12) in the State of Washington. Students interested in pursuing the Music Education major should follow the procedures outlined below:
Achieve music major status by successfully completing a School of Music performance audition. Information regarding audition dates and locations can be found on the School of Music Advising Office web site ( http://music.washington.edu/advising ).
Sign up for an audition for admission to the Music Education program. (This audition is separate from the School of Music performance audition.) Auditions are held twice a year, at the end of Spring quarter and just prior to Autumn quarter. The Music Education entrance audition consists of four parts:
Performance (5 minutes, maximum) on your principal instrument or voice of a prepared accompanied piece (an accompanist can be provided); also performance of a familiar melody by ear
Sight‐singing and/or sight‐reading melodies
An interview consisting of questions relevant to your interests in music teaching and learning among children and adolescents.
For additional information, please contact the Music Education office (206‐543‐5204) or consult the Music Education web page ( http://www.music.washington.edu/areas/music-education ).
NOTE: The Music Education entrance audition is open to all music majors during any year of study. Students not gaining admission to the music education program may re‐audition.
Courses
Pre-Core
MUSIC 113: Beginning Ear Training ( Autumn ) (1 credit)
MUSIC 119: Theory ( Autumn ) (3 credits)
MUSIC 120: Survey of Music History ( Aut/Win/Spr ) (5 credits) or proficiency exam
Music Theory & History Core
MUSIC 201, 202: First-Year Theory I, II ( Winter, Spring ) (3,3) (6 credits)
MUSIC 204, 205: First-Year Ear Training I, II ( Winter, Spring ) (1,1) (2 credits)
MUSIC 203, 301, 302: First-Year Theory III & Second-Year Theory I, II ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (3,3,3) (9 credits)
MUSIC 206, 304, 305: First-Year Ear Training III & Second Year-Ear Training I, II ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (1,1,1) (3 credits)
MUSIC 210, 211, 212: Music History I, II, III ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (3,3,3) (9 credits)
MUSIC 303: Second-Year Theory III ( Autumn ) (3 credits)
MUSIC 306: Second-Year Ear Training III ( Autumn ) (1 credit)
At least 3 credits from among: MUSIC 250, MUSIC 251, MUSIC 252, or any 400-level Ethnomusicology course
TOTAL CORE CREDITS: 36
