Owner: uw-seattle-statistics:pathway:may-benefit-from-completing-a-statistics-major-in-the-applied-statisti-cs-track
Source: https://stat.uw.edu/academics/undergraduate/statistics-bs/major
Title: Major Requirements | University of Washington Department of Statistics

(Optional) Write up to 100 words: If you have overcome challenges in your educational journey that you would like the committee to be aware of, please describe them here. For example, you can use this space to tell us about:
[Supplemental official source] Admissions
[Supplemental official source] Continuation and Honesty Policy
[Supplemental official source] Double Majors
[Supplemental official source] Internships & CPT
[Supplemental official source] Statistics B.S. Tracks
&copy; 2026 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
A student who has been placed on probation or has been dismissed from the major and believes that some facts in the student's documentation have been overlooked or misinterpreted may request reconsideration of the probation or dismissal from the major by writing a letter to the department. Included in the letter should be any additional information in support of the student or any other information that the student believes is relevant. In general, appeals to alter the student's status without evidence of new or additional information will not be considered. The appeal must be made within 14 days of the notification of placement on probation or dismissal from the major and will receive a response from the Statistics department within 14 days from the response of the student’s appeal.
About Us
academic ability as measured by GPA, factoring in difficulty and breadth of courses completed, frequency of incomplete courses, and number of repeated courses,
Academic Advising
Academic Honesty
Academics
Accessibility
Admission decisions
Admissions
Admitted students have 2 business days from when the offer is sent to accept our offer by email. If admitted, students have 5 business days from when the offer was sent to declare STAT as their major, 10 business days for double majors. Non-response by the deadlines is considered a decline of our offer. Applicants are not allowed to defer admissions and they must be declared Statistics major in the Fall quarter immediately after notification of acceptance. Failure to do so can result in a withdrawal of our offer.
All applicants will be evaluated using the following criteria:
All tracks share the same set of admission requirements. Students do not select a particular track when applying to the program. If admitted, students must declare one of the three tracks, but switching tracks is easy and should not delay graduation. Please refer to this page to learn more about the differences between tracks.
Alumni
An internship which is considered relevant to the Stat curriculum can count either towards the degree or it can count as a replacement for the capstone project (STAT 496).
answer a set of multiple-choice questions addressing experiences in Statistics and with the activities of the Department of Statistics;
Answer one of the following: (a) Describe a dataset you wish existed. Identify an existing dataset that addresses similar variables, and discuss what you would add to that dataset, and what questions that would allow you to answer that you cannot with the available data. Do not include data that were in any way generated by LLMs; (b) Describe a moment when you changed your mind because of a statistic or statistical analysis. Where did you encounter this data, what were you convinced of before, and what about the statistic or statistical analysis led to you changing your mind? Personal and specific examples are most appreciated. If this is something you read online, please include a link to the article which changed your mind. (max 150 words)
Any double majors in CSE/Stat (independently of track) can request that 2C credits of ENGR 321 (engineering internship) or CSE 301 (CSE Internship) be used instead of STAT 496 (capstone requirement). This puts these courses on the same footing as STAT 497 (statistics internship). Approval of this request is not automatic for any of the three courses, as it is subject to review by Statistics advising on a case-by-case basis (to make sure that there is enough statistics practicum in the internship). These credits never double count.
Any student -- including a first time offender -- who is suspected of cheating will be reported to the Office of Community Standards and Student Conduct who will investigate the matter further. It is always a good idea to actively take steps to minimize the chances of falling under an umbrella of suspicion.
Appeal Procedures
Applicants must have a minimum grade of 2.0 for each course required for admission. Successful applicants typically have a cumulative GPA higher than 3.0 in the courses that are listed below as required for admission, with no individual course grade below 2.5
Application requirements
Applications open on the first Friday of April and close on the third Friday of April at 5pm (Pacific Standard Time).
Applying as a current UW undergraduate student
Applying is very simple. Once applications open, please click here to start your application. You will be asked to submit written responses to the following prompts:
ArtsUW
Be a declared STAT major at the time you are requesting enrollment in STAT 497. For example, if you are admitted to the program during the Spring quarter, you will be a declared STAT major effective Summer (if registered) or Autumn quarter.
Be boundless
Chair's Newsletter
Check with instructors for expectations on collaboration and outside help (including the internet) on homework and other take home assessments.
College of Arts & Sciences
Community
Computing: CSE (strongly recommended) or CSE 122 or CSE 142. Students who have completed CSE 123 or CSE 143 satisfy this requirement even if they did not previously take CSE 122 or CSE 142.
Computing: STAT 302 and either CSE 163 (strongly recommended) or CSE 123.
Contact Us
Continuation and Honesty Policy
Continuation and Honesty Policy | University of Washington Department of Statistics
Courses
Courses for non-majors
CSE 332 (satisfies required elective for STAT DS students and a core requirement for all CSE majors).
CSE 442 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for either a CSE DS requirement or a CSE elective)
CSE 444 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for either a CSE DS requirement or a CSE elective)
CSE/Stat double majors can double count the following courses to satisfy requirements in both programs:
CSE/Stat double majors can either take CSE 446 (Machine Learning) or STAT 435 (Introduction to Statistical Machine Learning). Either class satisfies requirements for both programs (it can be double counted).
CSE/Stat double majors must complete both CSE 312 and MATH/STAT 394 to satisfy core requirements in each program. While there is some overlap between both courses, it is not enough to justify counting CSE 312 toward our probability requirement, and vice versa.
Current Leadership
Decisions are made approximately within two weeks after the application deadline. Students are notified of the decision via email.
Decisions are made in conjunction with the Office of Admissions and are based on a holistic review of applicants. There is no separate application for Statistics Direct to Major applicants and no additional materials are required. Applicants should follow the UW Freshman Application guidelines; you do not need to craft a statistics-focused application. Your application will be reviewed by the UW-Seattle Office of Admissions, so questions about the application should be directed to askuwadm@uw.edu . The UW-Seattle Office of Admissions prioritizes academically strong, motivated, and well-rounded students.
Department Forms
Department History
Department Seminars
Direct admission into the major when applying to the UW directly from high school
Directories
Dismissal from the Major
Diversity
Double Major and Double Degree
Double major in CSE (B.S.) and Statistics (B.S.)
Double major in Mathematics (B.S) and Statistics (B.S.)
Double Majors
Either MATH 300, MATH 327 and MATH 424, which satisfies three core requirements of the Mathematics B.S. and is one of the breadth sequences for the mathematical statistics track of the Statistics B.S,
Elements of your record which might misrepresent your potential as a statistics major;
Employment
Engaging in an internship is a great way to explore careers, expand your professional network and gain valuable experience by applying the knowledge learnt in class to the “real world”. The Department of Statistics considers internships an integral part of the training, and students can get credit towards their degree by enrolling in STAT 497.
Evaluation criteria:
Example of what your coursework will look like
Expectation of Satisfactory Progress
Faculty
Faculty Books
Faculty Honors
FAQs
Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->Applying as a current UW undergraduate student ▾ Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->
Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->Commitment to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion ▾ Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->
Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->Direct to Major admissions for freshmen applicants ▾ Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->
Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->Transfer Students ▾ Font Awesome fontawesome.com -->
Footer menu
For students who plan to Double-Major but do not have a declared major: Please explain what other major you plan to take, why you wish to do so, and how you expect Statistics to complement your other major. (max 150 words)
For students with a declared major: If statistics is your second major or you are planning to change your major to statistics, please explain why you wish to do so and how you expect Statistics to complement your other major. If statistics is your second major or you are planning to change your major to statistics, please explain why you wish to do so and how you expect Statistics to complement your other major. (max 150 words)
Full-time internships and full-time CPT positions will only be approved for the summer quarter.
Give Your Support
Graduate
Have made satisfactory progress in all quarters as a STAT major (see Continuation Policy )
Home
Honors Program
How to Apply
How your personal history (family, educational, cultural, and economic background) has influenced you and your goals.
If a student wants their internship to count either towards the degree, the following must occur:
If at the end of the quarter, the student fails to meet the general expectations of satisfactory progress, the student will be placed on probation. Once on probation, the student must achieve a cum GPA higher than 2.5 and meet all the general expectations of satisfactory progress (listed in this Continuation Policy) in the following quarter to avoid dismissal from the major.
If the internship is approved, students have to enroll in STAT 497.
If you are a transfer student and you are interested in the Statistics major, you are highly encouraged to contact the Statistics advisor ( statugradadv@stat.uw.edu ) as soon as possible. Our advising staff will help you plan the coursework in preparation for the Spring admissions cycle. When you submit the major’s admission application, please explain that you joined UW as a transfer student.
If you are an international student on an active F-1 visa status, you must apply for a Curricular Practice Training (CPT) before you engage in an internship. The CPT serves as a work authorization as students engage in different types of activities related to their major. Please, review the UW ISS page regarding the CPT process. If you have questions about the process, you should refer these to your ISS adviser.
If you are interested in pursuing a degree in Statistics, in addition to the introductory courses needed to apply (STAT 311 or STAT 390, and STAT 394), typically taken during the sophomore year, you will be taking more advanced statistics classes focused on mathematical theory, computational methods or applications according to the track you choose. Here is a flow chart based on courses and interests that can help you make a decision on which track is more suitable for you.
Important dates
In a few sentences, describe why, from your perspective, the image you uploaded above is a good or bad example of data visualization. Start your answer with "This is a good example because" or "This is a bad example because" so that your opinion is clear. If you choose an example of a bad visual representation, explain what you would do to improve it. Add the details of where you found it and a link to it. Surprise us with your choice! (Submit the link to the original source in the designated field below and check that it works.) (max 150 words)
In addition to the writing prompts all applicants will be asked to:
In order to take advantage of Direct to Major admissions, UW freshman applicants must list Statistics as their first-choice major . Please note that the University of Washington does not consider an applicant's second-choice major for admission into direct-entry majors or colleges. Hence, applicants will only be considered for Direct to Major admission if Statistics is their first-choice major.
In summary, the total number of courses double counted for a CSE DS/STAT DS double major:
In This Section
Incomplete applications will not be considered, and extra time will not be given. Please plan ahead so you do not find yourself in this situation.
indicate their preferred track within our major (this choice is non-binding).
Internship details
Internships & CPT
Internships and CPT
Internships which are already in progress or have been completed at the time of the form submission.
Internships which occurred before or while taking STAT 341 OR
Internships will be evaluated once a quarter in week 9 , thus forms submitted after week 9 will be evaluated the following quarter.
Intranet
Jobs
Land Acknowledgement
LING 421 R for Linguists (5)
LING 471 Computational Methods for Linguists (5)
LING 472 Introduction to Computational Linguistics (5) (prereq: 400 + either LING 461 or CSE 311)
LING 473 Basics for Computational Linguistics (3) (Prerequisite: CSE 326; STAT 391)
Login
Lower division courses : 19-30 credits (depending on whether the regular or honor calculus sequence is selected, and on whether the student places in CSE 121, 122, or 123).
Lower division courses: 15-18 credits (9-12 for the calculus/linear algebra sequence, depending on whether the regular or honor calculus sequence is selected, plus 3 credits for MATH 224).
Main navigation
Major Requirements
Many students discover a new academic passion during their first year - they indicate preference for one major on their UW application, but an exciting introductory course in another field causes them to reconsider. This is healthy! The Statistics Department welcomes applications to the major from current UW students who are interested in pursuing statistics. At least half of the available spots in each cohort are available to current UW students.
Maps
MATH 224 also satisfies lower-division requirements for both the Mathematics and the Statistics B.S. It can be double counted.
MATH 318 satisfies elective requirements for both majors and can be double counted.
MATH/STAT 394 satisfies a core requirement for the Statistics B.S. and an elective requirement for the Mathematics BS. It can be double counted.
Math/Stat double majors can double count one (and only one) of the following two nine-credi, three-course sequences:
Mathematics: MATH 124, MATH 125, and MATH 126. Students can substitute this sequence with the accelerated (honors) calculus sequence MATH 134, MATH 135, and MATH 136.
Minimum requirements to be eligible for internship credits and CPT
Most students apply at the end of their sophomore year, though this is not a requirement and students can potentially apply in any year as long as they meet the admission’s requirements.
motivation.
Must have completed STAT 341 before requesting enrollment in STAT 497.
MyUW
Non-admitted students have the right to petition and appeal the Department’s decision within five business days from when the decision letter was sent. Please contact mhon@uw.edu to obtain a copy of the appeal form.
Non-Degree Enrollment
Once you submit your answers, your transcripts will be pulled directly from your UW academic records, so you will not be expected to upload them.
Or MATH/STAT 395, MATH/STAT 491 and either MATH/STAT 492 or MATH/STAT 493, which satisfies three elective requirements for the Mathematics B.S. and is one of the other breadth sequences for the mathematical statistics track of the Statistics B.S.
Overview
People
Please make sure you satisfy the requirements before applying for internship credits/CPT, we cannot make exceptions regarding eligibility requirements. Internships with the following characteristics will not be evaluated:
Please note that the statistics major at UW is not available to post-bac students owing to the large demand among first-time degree seeking undergraduates.
Policies and Procedures
Possible pathways into the major include:
Postdoctoral Researchers
Preprints
Privacy
Probability: MATH/STAT 394.
Probation
Recent News
relevant work and experience,
Research
Resources
Review and Notification of Progress
Search
Since admission is capacity constrained, completion of the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission.
Sit away from usual study partners in an in-class test situation.
Skip to main content
SOC 225 or STAT 303 (satisfies a STAT DS requirement as well as for the CSE DS track).
Staff
Starting in the 2024-2025 academic year, STAT 497 may replace the capstone project (STAT 496). For STAT 497 to replace the capstone project, in addition to the above characteristics an internship must also have the following :
STAT 311 and STAT 394 are among the pre-requisites for admission and therefore they are usually taken early in the sophomore year (Plan A), so that students can apply to the Stat major in Spring of their sophomore year. Once students enroll in the major, they should start working on the core major requirements by taking STAT 341 and STAT 342, which represent the statistical theory requirements, serve as pre-requisites for other core courses and give the foundations to understand Machine Learning classes (such as STAT 435) and other breadth requirements classes. STAT 302 and STAT 303 provide, respectively, the foundations of statistical computing and an understanding of the ethical implications of statistical decision-making algorithms. We expect students to take them either during their junior or their senior year. The senior year should be mainly dedicated to the capstone project and to electives; the specific courses will largely depend on the selected track and may require pre-requisites.
STAT 497 and CPT process summary
Statistical Consulting
Statistics B.S.
Statistics B.S. tracks
Statistics B.S. Tracks
Statistics Minor
Statistics: Either STAT 311 (strongly recommended) or STAT 390.
Student Awards
Students
Students are expected to make satisfactory progress towards the attainment of the degree. Under normal circumstances, a Statistics major attending full-time would be considered making satisfactory progress if he/she/they complete all major prerequisites by the end of the Sophomore year (with 90 cumulative units) and completes the major requirements (core courses, major electives, and capstone) during Junior and Senior years. Students must complete at least one (1) course towards major requirements each quarter they enroll, with the exception of summer quarter OR complete a minimum of three (3) courses applicable toward their degree program in a year excluding summer quarter. Lack of academic progress may be evidenced by low scholarship as well as excessive course repeats, course drops, or University withdrawals and cancellations.
Students have to submit an “Internship Evaluation Form” available below (see section "How to apply for internship credits"). As part of the form, students should upload the offer letter, job description, and supervisor contact details. The Department of Statistics will use the form to assess whether the internship aligns with the Statistics Program and meets the requirements listed below.
Students intending to pursue a double major in CSE/Stat should take CSE 121-122-123 rather than CSE 160-163 to satisfy their intro programing requirements in the Statistics B.S. The CSE 121-122-123 sequence satisfies lower-division requirements for both majors.
Students must complete a reflection activity on Canvas in order to receive credit.
Students must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.0 and thereby avoid appearing on the University’s Low Scholarship list.
Students must maintain a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.5 in major requirements, with a minimum grade of 2.0 in each class used to satisfy major requirements (e.g., core courses, major electives, and capstone). Courses used to satisfy major requirements cannot be taken on a satisfactory/non-satisfactory basis except during UW sanctioned Extraordinary Circumstances Quarters.
Students on probation for two consecutive quarters will be dismissed from the Statistics major. The student will be notified in writing of the change in major status and will be re-coded as a pre-major or extended pre-major.
Students who have AP calculus and CS credits from high-school may be eligible to apply for admission to the Statistics major in their freshmen year (see Plan B).
Students will be notified of probation or dismissal from the major as soon as practicable after review of the previous quarter’s grade reports. Failure to meet one or more of the general expectations of satisfactory progress may also result in the following actions.
Students will enroll in 1 credit of STAT 497 if part-time (less than 20 hours a week).
Students will enroll in 2 credits of STAT 497 if the internship is full time (more than 20 hours a week).
Students wishing to apply to the statistics major must complete the online application by the due date and time ( see important dates above).
Terms
The Department of Statistics believes diversity is integral to the well-being of our programs in particular and the field of statistics in general.
The Department of Statistics welcomes students who are willing to pursue a double major or a double degree. Juggling the requirements of two majors can be very challenging. While you can find general information on UW’s requirements for double majors and double degrees at this link , on this page we include details that should facilitate students who are pursuing a double major or double degree with Statistics. In particular, the Department of Statistics is working with other departments at UW to create preapproved paths which include courses that can and cannot double count towards the major. Please note that this is only a suggestion and students do not have to follow our pre-approved path.
The department welcomes students who are interested in pursuing the Statistics B.S. as part of a double major. A statistics degree can be a very good complement to many other degrees in the natural, health and social sciences. The only exception is the B.S. in Applied and Computational Mathematical Sciences (ACMS), whose content significantly overlaps with that of the Statistics major. Thus, double majoring in Statistics and ACMS is not allowed.
The Department will evaluate internships' offers and, if considered inherent to the major, an add-code for STAT 497 will be issued. At the end of the internship, credits for STAT 497 will be awarded. If your internship is not integral to the Statistics major, but can be considered to be at least 50% engineering, you might want to explore the options available through the Engineering Internship Program . Alternatively, the Community Engagement and Leadership Education Center offers the opportunity to earn credit for the demonstrated learning derived from an internship experience.
The following flow-charts will help you understand the STAT 300 level courses and their pre-requisites. For a full list of courses please see this page .
The form must be submitted for approval before starting the internship.
The internship must involve at least 50% Statistics-related work.
The internship must occur after completing STAT 341.
The internship must occur after completing STAT 342 - Students who declare the STAT major in or after 2025, will have to have taken STAT 435 to be eligible for STAT 497 credits in line with STAT 496 prerequisites.
The MATH 124-125-126-208 (or, alternatively, MATH 134-135-135) sequence satisfies lower-division mathematics requirements for both majors.
The MATH 124-125-126-208 (or, alternatively, MATH 134-135-135) sequence satisfies lower-division mathematics requirements for both majors. It can be double counted.
The Mathematical S tatistics track provides a solid foundation for graduate studies in statistics and closely-related fields. The Data Science track emphasizes the link between statistics and computer science and it is perfect for those interested in the computational aspects of statistics, along with database management and coding. The Applied Statistics track is intended for students to explore the use of statistical methods in specific scientific domains. It is intended for those who have an interest in a specific applied discipline and would like to have a deep understanding of Statistics to be able to apply in their domain of choice. Students interested in pursuing graduate degrees in other applied disciplines, such as E conomics or other social sciences, may benefit from completing a statistics major in the Applied Statisti cs track.
The Statistics Department will review the performance of undergraduate students after each quarter. If a student fails to meet the general expectations of satisfactory progress outlined above in any quarter in the program, the following actions will be invoked.
The University of Washington is a great place to study Statistics. As with many other programs at UW, the Statistics B.S. is capacity-constrained: the number of interested students exceeds the number of student places that are available.
The UW community is committed to maintaining the highest level of academic integrity. Cheating (in all its forms) will have serious consequences. Please, visit the UW Academic Misconduct page for more details on academic misconduct.
Toggle navigation
Transfer Credit Evaluations
Transfer students need to be admitted to UW before they can apply to the Statistics major. Once admitted, they can apply to the Statistics major in Spring following the procedure outlined above. Currently, the Department of Statistics does not consider Direct to Major admissions for transfer students.
Transferring from another university or community college
Undergrad Opportunities
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington
Upload an image which represents one example of either a good OR a bad visual representation of data. This could be a graphic from a newspaper or website, a figure from a research article, or something from a class you took (it does not need to be a statistics class). Do not include data or images that were in any way generated by LLMs.
Upper division courses: 19 credits (CSE 446/STAT 435: 4 credits, SOC 225/STAT 303: 3 credits, CSE 442: 4 credits, CSE 444: 4 credits, CSE 332: 4 credits).
Upper division courses: up to 15 credits (3 credits for 394, 9 credits for either MATH 300-327-424 or MATH/STAT 395-491-492/3, and 3 credits for MATH 318).
UW Home
UW Menu
We are committed to providing a well-rounded education that combines academic rigor with hands-on training in a supportive, socially responsible and inclusive environment that offers access and opportunity for all.
We recommend taking the data science track to students who are willing to double major with CSE. Below we provide some parameters for managing course overlap and for double counting courses across both majors under that assumption:
We recommend taking the mathematical statistics track to students who are willing to double major with Mathematics. Below we provide some parameters for managing course overlap and for double counting courses across both majors under that assumption:
We welcome applicants with varied cultural and personal experiences and from varying socio-economic and academic backgrounds.
With Direct to Major admission, freshmen applicants have the possibility of being admitted directly to the Statistics program as majors. Students coming in through this pathway are assured a spot in the major as long as they satisfy the continuation and honesty policy .
Working Groups
