Owner: uw-seattle-music-b-a
Source: https://music.washington.edu/bachelor-arts-music-instrumental-option
Title: Bachelor of Arts - Music, Instrumental Option | School of Music | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Bachelor of Arts
[Supplemental official source] Bachelor of Music
[Supplemental official source] Ethnomusicology
* The postbaccalaureate degree program is designed to serve students who already have an undergraduate degree in music, but wish to become trained and certified in music teaching. Prospective students must apply to the University (see http://admit.washington.edu/Apply/Postbacs for deadlines) and audition for the music education faculty (see audition dates for information and dates). The degree programs above can serve as a guide for the post-baccaluareate student but decisions about what previous credits will transfer are made on an individual basis at the time of admission.
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
A minimum 2.5 GPA
A minimum grade of 2.0 in each MUSIC course taken,
A&H - Arts and Humanities = 20 cr.; SSc - Social Sciences = 20 cr.; NSc - Natural Sciences= 20 cr.
About
Additional Music Requirements
Admission to the Ethnomusicology Program requires an application , in part because it includes a capstone project with one-on-one faculty supervision. Applications are reviewed when received, and may be submitted at any time during Autumn, Winter, or Spring quarter.
Admissions & Auditions
Advising
All BM students must complete a minimum of 60 credits of non-music coursework.
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
Alumni Update
Approved upper-level Music Theory or History electives (see list of course options) (6 credits)
Archives & Collections
Areas of Inquiry - 10 credits each: A&H (Arts and Humanities), SSc (Social Sciences), and NSc (Natural Sciences)
Areas of Inquiry - 75 credits total (of which 15 cr. of major dept. prefix can count but not toward 60 non-Music), including 20 credits in 2 of: A&H - Arts and Humanities = 20 cr.; SSc- Social Sciences = 20 cr.; NSc - Natural Sciences= 20 cr.
Areas of Inquiry - 75 credits total (of which 15 cr. of major dept. prefix can count but not toward 90 non-Music)
Areas of Study
At least 3 credits from among: MUSIC 250, MUSIC 251, MUSIC 252, or any 400-level Ethnomusicology course
Auditions
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Arts - Ethnomusicology
Bachelor of Arts - Ethnomusicology | School of Music | University of Washington
Bachelor of Arts - Ethnomusicology Degree Program Sheet (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts - Instrumental Option Degree Program Sheet (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Instrumental Option
Bachelor of Arts - Music, Instrumental Option | School of Music | University of Washington
Bachelor of Arts - Sample Course Sequence (PDF)
Bachelor of Arts | School of Music | University of Washington
Bachelor of Arts Ethnomusicology Sample 2 Year Course Sequence
Bachelor of Arts Ethnomusicology Sample 4 Year Course Sequence
Bachelor of Arts with a major in ethnomusicology
Bachelor of Music
Bachelor of Music | School of Music | University of Washington
Bachelor of Music General Education Requirements
Bands
Box 353450
By Area of Study
By Last Name
Centers & Labs
Chamber Music
Choral Music Library
College of Arts & Sciences
Composition
Concert & Event Production
Conducting
Contact Us
Course Offerings
Courses
Current Projects
Current Season
Directories
Diversity – 3 cr., may overlap with courses taken in the major or to fulfill general education requirements.
Diversity – 5 cr., may overlap with courses taken in the major or to fulfill general education requirements.
Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion
Doctor of Musical Arts
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.)
DXArts
Early Music & Baroque
Email Communications
Ensemble Requirements
Ensembles
Ethnomusicology
Ethnomusicology Core
Ethnomusicology Electives
Events Calendar
Facebook
Facilities
Faculty
Faculty & Staff Resources
Fields of Interest
Frequently Asked Questions
Give now
Graduate Admissions
Graduate Degrees
Graduate Students
Guitar
Hire a Musician
History
Home
If a student has already developed a capstone project topic and/or faculty advisor, they may discuss that in the statement of purpose. This step is not required for a successful application.
Instagram
Instrumental Option
Instrumental Performance
Interdisciplinary Electives
Internships & Careers
Jazz
Jazz and Improvised Music
Jazz Studies
John Blacking: Venda Music
Language Skills - 5 cr. English Composition; 5 cr. Foreign Language (third quarter)
Language Skills = 5 cr. English Composition; 5 cr. Foreign Language (third quarter)
LinkedIn
Mailing Lists
Main menu
Make a Gift
Maps
Master of Arts
Master of Music
Menu
Modern & Contemporary
MUSAP/MUEN 389: World Music (6-12 credits)
MUSIC 113 & 119: Beginning Ear Training (1), Theory (3) Autumn (9 credits)
MUSIC 113: Beginning Ear Training ( Autumn ) (1 credit)
MUSIC 119: Theory ( Autumn ) (3 credits)
MUSIC 120: Survey of Music History ( Aut/Win/Spr ) (5 credits) or proficiency exam
MUSIC 201, 202: First-Year Theory I, II ( Winter, Spring ) (3,3) (6 credits)
MUSIC 201, 204: First-Year Theory and Ear Training (3, 1) Winter (4 credits)
MUSIC 202, 205: First-Year Theory and Ear Training (3, 1) Spring (4 credits)
MUSIC 203, 206: First-Year Theory and Ear Training (3, 1) Autumn (4 credits)
MUSIC 203, 301, 302: First-Year Theory III & Second-Year Theory I, II ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (3,3,3) (9 credits)
MUSIC 204, 205: First-Year Ear Training I, II ( Winter, Spring ) (1,1) (2 credits)
MUSIC 206, 304, 305: First-Year Ear Training III & Second Year-Ear Training I, II ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (1,1,1) (3 credits)
MUSIC 210, 211, 212: Music History I, II, III ( Aut,Win,Spr ) (3,3,3) (9 credits)
MUSIC 251: Music Cultures of the World: The Americas (5 credits)
MUSIC 252: Music Cultures of the World (Near East, Central Asia, Far East, South and Southeast Asia, Indonesia, and the Philippines) (5 credits)
MUSIC 303: Second-Year Theory III ( Autumn ) (3 credits)
MUSIC 306: Second-Year Ear Training III ( Autumn ) (1 credit)
MUSIC 499: Independent Study (5 credits)
Music Building
Music Education
Music Education - Instrumental Emphasis
Music Education - Post Baccalaureate Certfication, Instrumental Emphasis*
Music Education - Post Baccalaureate Certficiation, Vocal Emphasis*
Music Education - Vocal Emphasis
Music Education, Instrumental Emphasis
Music Education, Post Bac, Instrumental Emphasis
Music Education, Post Bac, Vocal Emphasis
Music Education, Vocal Emphasis
Music History
Music History Option
Music Library
Music Minor
Music Theory & History Core
Music Theory Option
Music, Instrumental Option
Music, Music History Option
Music, Music Theory Option
Music, Voice Option
Musical Instrument Collection
MUSICP 321-339: Instrumental instruction (2-3 years) (18 credits)
musinfo@uw.edu
MyUW
News
News Archive
Newsletter
Non-Majors, Access, & Public Learning
Non-Music Coursework
One course selected from: ANTH 204, 208, 228 (3 credits)
Orchestral Instruments
Orchestras
Organ
Other Ensembles
Participation in at least one School of Music ensemble is required during every quarter of applied music instruction. (9 credits)
Past Seasons
People
Percussion
Percussion Performance
Performances & Events
Phone: (206) 543-1201
Piano
Piano : Three quarters of Accompanying (MUSEN 325), and at least 1 credit of choral ensemble is required druing every quarter of applied instruction.
Piano Profienciency
Pre-Core
Print Mailings
Privacy
Programs & Courses
Publications & Recordings
Quick links
Quick Links
Reasoning and Writing in Context - 5 cr. Reasoning; 10 cr. Writing courses
Reasoning and Writing in Context = 5 cr. Reasoning; 10 cr. Writing course
Recent News
Registration Policies
Research
Resources
Room Reservations & Event Production
Room Reservations & Recital Scheduling
Scholarships & Financial Aid
School of Music
Search
Seattle, WA 98195
Secondary Piano
See the Degree Program Sheet below for a checklist of course requirements.
See the Sample Course Sequence Sheet below for one possible degree course plan.
See the Sample Course Sequence Sheets below for possible degree course plans
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Sociocultural Anthropology Electives
Staff
Statement of Purpose
Stay Connected
Strings
Strings : University Symphony Orchestra (MUSEN 300) is required during every quarter of applied instruction.
Student Advisory Council
Student Work
Students admitted to the UW for Autumn 2023 and after:
Students admitted to the UW in prior quarters:
Students earning a Bachelor of Arts with a major in music may choose one of the following options:
Students earning a Bachelor of Music degree may major in the following areas:
Students interested in applying to the Ethnomusicology BA should send an email to the current chair of the Ethnomusicology Program with the following information:
Students must satisfy a piano proficiency requirement equivalent to passing MUSAP 135.
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Summer Study
Support Music
Support Us
Terms
The capstone project will be planned in consultation with a faculty supervisor the student chooses to work with, pending that faculty member’s availability, and may take a variety of forms, including a research paper, a performance-oriented project, or other form.
The School of Music also offers:
The student will have a minimum grade of 3.0 in either Music 251, 252, or another approved course in Ethnomusicology,
The student will submit a statement of purpose (250-500 words in length) explaining their interest in Ethnomusicology and why the Ethnomusicology BA is a good major in which to pursue that interest.
The University of Washington acknowledges the Coast Salish peoples of this land, the land which touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations.
Theory Certificate
This degree is offered with a major in Music, and is intended for students who wish to emphasize general competence in music within the framework of a liberal arts education. Students must complete a minimum of 180 credits, of which 90 must be taken in departments other than the School of Music, including the Language Skills , Reasoning and Writing in Context , and Areas of Inquiry requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences. Music majors are required to earn a minimum grade of 2.0 in each music course (core and elective) that is to count toward music degree requirements. A GPA of 2.5 in music is required for graduation. Learn More
This degree is offered with a major in Music, and is intended for students who wish to emphasize general competence in music within the framework of a liberal arts education. Students must complete a minimum of 180 credits, of which 90 must be taken in departments other than the School of Music, including the Language Skills, Reasoning and Writing in Context , and Areas of Inquiry requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences. Music majors are required to earn a minimum grade of 2.0 in each music course (core and elective) that is to count toward music degree requirements. A GPA of 2.5 in music is required for graduation.
Three 400-level courses selected from: MUSIC 439, 440, 442, 428, 433, 445, 446, 480, or MUSED 452 (9-15 credits)
Ticketing
TOTAL CORE CREDITS: 33-39
TOTAL CORE CREDITS: 36
TOTAL MAJOR CREDITS: 51-67
TOTAL MAJOR CREDITS: 69
TOTAL NON-MUSIC CREDITS: 90
Two 300- or 400-level courses selected from: Music (History, Theory, Education); Anthropology; History; Area Studies; English; Comparative Literature; Sociology; Dance; Drama; Philosophy; American Ethnic Studies; Gender, Women & Sexuality Studies (6-10 credits)
Undergraduate Admissions
Undergraduate Degrees
University of Washington
Upper Level Electives
User account menu
UW Transcript (may be unofficial) that demonstrates the following:
Venues & Parking
Vi Hilbert Archive
Vocal
Vocal Option
Vocal Performance
Voice
Washington
World Music Core Courses
You are here
YouTube
