Owner: uw-seattle-applied-mathematics:pathway:what-is-applied-mathematics-with-a-data-science-option
Source: https://amath.washington.edu/undergraduate-major-applied-mathematics
Title: Undergraduate Major: Applied Mathematics | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] B.S. in Applied Mathematics: Data Science Option
[Supplemental official source] B.S. in Computational Finance & Risk Management: Data Science Option
[Supplemental official source] B.S. to M.S. Pathway
[Supplemental official source] Supplemental official track and option pages
*Admission is guaranteed, following an administrative review, provided the applicant’s BSc degree is conferred before the start of the program. Students are responsible for applying to the Graduate School and meeting the minimum admissions requirements before being allowed to enroll as a graduate student.
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
1. one of AMATH 481 or CSE 163 (4-5 credits)
1. Review the requirements and submit the BS to MS pre-application form .
1) Methods of Applied Mathematics: Minimum two courses from AMATH 401, AMATH 402, AMATH 403
2. Once the above form and course plan has been approved by an advisor, submit your official Graduate School application by the posted deadline . Be sure to select "Applied Math: Applied & Computational (MS)." Letters of recommendation and statement of purpose are optional.
2. one of AMATH 482, CSE 414, or INFO 430 (4-5 credits)
2) Modeling: Minimum two courses from AMATH 342, AMATH 383, AMATH 422, AMATH 423
3. AMATH 483 (5 credits)
3. AMATH 483, CFRM 410, and CFRM 420 (11 credits)
3) Computing and Data Sciences: Minimum two courses from AMATH 481, AMATH 482, AMATH 483, CFRM 410, CFRM 420, CFRM 421
4. one of CFRM 421, CSE 416/STAT 416, or STAT 435 (4 credits)
4) Additional courses from the above lists to bring the elective minimum total to 27 credits.
5. INFO 351 (4 credits) or SOC 225 (3 or 5 credits)
About
Additional information for prospective students
Additional policies, useful links, and resources may be found here !
Admissions
Admissions Criteria For Non-AMATH Majors in a B.S. Program:
Admissions: Incoming Freshmen , Transfers , International Students
Advising
Advising Contact
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Update
AMATH 301 or CSE 123 or CSE 143
AMATH 351 or MATH 207
AMATH 352 or MATH 208
AMATH Course Catalog
amath-gpa@uw.edu
An official Graduate School application must be submitted by the posted deadline of your senior year (January 12, 2026 for Autumn 2026 admission). Late applications will not be accepted, even if you meet the admissions criteria. If requirements #1-7 are complete by this deadline, decisions will be announced by mid-February each year. If any coursework is in-progress or incomplete at the time of application, you will be offered conditional admission until missing coursework can be verified and you will receive a decision by July 1.
AP or transfer credit is allowed for certain courses and alternative courses may be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Applied & Computational Math Sciences (ACMS)
Applied Math Tutors
Applied Mathematics Graduate Advisor
Applied mathematics incorporates interdisciplinary study in the physical, engineering, and biological sciences. We provide dynamic and engaging training that is especially strong in mathematical methods (scientific computing, data science, etc.) and in application areas (mathematical biology, health sciences, nonlinear waves and coherent structures, mathematical finance, data analysis and climate modeling).
Applied Mathematics: Data Science Option
Applied Mathematics: Data Science Option | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington
Approved course plan for remainder of undergrad program
At least one 400-level AMATH course
Autumn 2026 Deadlines:
B.S. in Applied Mathematics
B.S. in Applied Mathematics: Data Science Option
B.S. in Computational Finance & Risk Management
B.S. in Computational Finance & Risk Management: Data Science Option
B.S. to M.S. Pathway
B.S. to M.S. Pathway | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington
Boeing Colloquium Series
Box 353925
BS to MS pre-application form deadline: December 30, 2025 at 5:00pm Pacific Time
Calendar
Career Preparation : students will experience a broad curriculum to learn high level mathematics in preparation for dynamic careers in a variety of fields and to become leaders in a society that exhibits increasing demands for competence in communication, computation, and quantitative analysis.
Careers
Centers & Institutes
CFRM Course Catalog
College of Arts & Sciences
Computational Finance & Risk Management: Data Science Option
Computational Finance & Risk Management: Data Science Option | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington
Computational Finance and Risk Management (CFRM) is the application of advanced mathematical, statistical, and computational methods to solving quantitative finance problems. Students will investigate financial topics and explore the business world rationally, creatively, and critically, in a quantitative way.
Computing: AMATH 301 (4 credits)
Computing: AMATH 301, CFRM 425 (7 credits)
Conferences
Contact an advisor
Contact Us
Courses
Current & Upcoming Courses
Current AMATH Majors
Current AMATH majors can petition to enroll in the Data Science option during the Autumn and Spring admission cycles.
Current CFRM majors can petition to enroll in the Data Science option during the Autumn and Spring admission cycles.
Current University of Washington Applied Mathematics majors in good standing who have a cumulative GPA of at least 3.6 at the start of the winter quarter of their final year of study will be guaranteed* admission to the on-campus Master of Science in Applied & Computational Mathematics program in the Department of Applied Mathematics for the following autumn quarter.
Current University of Washington juniors and seniors in Bachelor of Science programs other than the Applied Mathematics major who complete the following courses and other requirements will be guaranteed* admission to the on-campus Master of Science in Applied & Computational Mathematics program in the Department of Applied Mathematics for the following autumn quarter.
Data Science (17-19 credits):
Data Science (23-25 credits):
Degree requirements:
Degree Requirements:
Department of Applied Mathematics
Directories
Electives (minimum 27 credits)
Faculty
Faculty Books
Fax: (206) 685-1440
Five courses from any of the following: (a) up to five additional AMATH courses, (b) MATH 381, (c) one of MATH/STAT 390, STAT 311, or STAT 391
Frequently Asked Questions
Full Directory
Funding & Financial Support
General Education requirements for College of Arts and Sciences students may be found here .
Give now
Graduate
Graduate Student Guide
Graduation Celebration
History
Home
How do you major in AMATH with a Data Science option?
How do you major in AMATH?
How do you major in CFRM with a Data Science option?
How do you meet with a departmental major advisor?
How do you meet with an departmental major advisor?
How to Apply
info@amath.washington.edu
Intranet
Introductory Applied Mathematics: AMATH 351, AMATH 352, AMATH 353 (9 credits)
Journal Clubs
Lewis Hall 201
LinkedIn
M.S. Students
Mailing List
Main menu
Maps
Master&#039;s Programs
MATH 126
Mathematics : MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136) (15 credits)
Mathematics: MATH 124, MATH 125, MATH 126 (or MATH 134, MATH 135, MATH 136) (15 credits)
Menu
Minimum 2.00 cumulative GPA in courses applied to the major.
Minimum 54-58 credits:
Minimum 54-59 credits:
Minimum 63-67 credits:
Minor in Applied Mathematics
Minor in Computational Finance
MyUW
News & Events
News Feed
Newsletter
Note: If you are missing one or more of requirements #1-7 or if your pre-application is not approved, you may still be considered for admission through our general admissions process by submitting an official graduate school application and the required materials (including 3 letters of recommendation and a statement of purpose.)
Official UW Graduate School application deadline: January 12, 2026
Other Majors
Our Awards
Our department is the top ranked Applied Mathematics Department in the country, according to The National Research Council, tied with Princeton for #1.
Our program prepares students for dynamic careers in a variety of fiel ds.
Our students learn to apply math to problems that society is facing today in the physical, engineering, biological and health sciences, industry, and many additional application areas.
Overall GPA of at least 3.6 by application date
Past Courses
People
Ph.D. Dissertations
Ph.D. Program
Ph.D. Students
Phone: (206) 543-5493
Please check back in June for Autumn 2027 deadlines.
Please visit our Admissions page for important details such as the application procedure and deadlines, admissions statistics, plus dates for upcoming info sessions!
Policies & Resources
Privacy
Program Start
Programs & Courses
Quantitative Finance: CFRM 405, CFRM 410, CFRM 415, CFRM 420 (12 credits)
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Requirements for Data Science Option: (20-24 credits)
Requirements for Data Science Option: (26-30 credits)
Research
Research Areas
Research Groups & Labs
Resources
Scholarships & Financial Aid: students can find a number of financial aid opportunities through the Student Financial Aid Office . With the Husky Promise , the UW guarantees to cover the full cost of tuition and standard fees for qualified students who otherwise could not afford to attend.
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-3925
Seminar in Applied Mathematics
Seminars
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Societies
Society and Data (3-5 credits):
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Honor Code
Students may apply for the AMATH: Data Science option at the time of their application to the major.
Students may apply for the CFRM: Data Science option at the time of their application to the major.
Support Applied Math
Support Us
Terms
The Data Science option in Applied Mathematics provides students with training in data science methods and practices through the study of statistical modeling, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and optimization , among other aspects of applied mathematics .
The Data Science option in CFRM provides students with training in data science methods and practices through the study of statistical modeling, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and optimization, among other aspects of applied mathematics.
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Major: Applied Mathematics
Undergraduate Major: Applied Mathematics | Department of Applied Mathematics | University of Washington
University of Washington
User account menu
Washington
We recommend submitting your BS to MS pre-application form with enough time to request letters of recommendation from faculty for the full application, if needed.
What is Applied Mathematics with a Data Science option?
What is Applied Mathematics?
What is Computational Finance & Risk Management with a Data Science option?
When to Apply
Why study Applied Mathematics (AMATH)?
You are here
Your starting quarter is the first autumn quarter after you earn your BS degree (e.g. a student graduating from any quarter between Autumn 2025 - Spring 2026 will begin the graduate program Autumn 2026).
YouTube
