Owner: uw-seattle-sustainable-bioresource-systems-engineering:pathway:required-nrem-option-courses
Source: https://sefs.uw.edu/students/undergraduate/sbse-major/requirements/
Title: SBSE Schedule and Major Requirements | School of Environmental and Forest Sciences

-->
[Note: As of Autumn 2025, the Bioresource Science and Engineering (BSE) major is superseded by the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) major. Present BSE majors will be able to complete their BSE degrees, but the BSE major is no longer admitting. The SBSE Major and the BSE Majors are very similar, but SBSE has a handful of different requirements, and many existing SBSE courses have been substantially updated. Both BSE and SBSE students take the same core courses, only now at the SBSE course prefix. If you have any questions, please email SEFS Advising ]
[Note: this list last updated July 23, 2025]
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Academic Requirements
[Supplemental official source] Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major [formerly BSE]
&copy; 2026 University of Washington |
<!--
<svg id="college_black_logo" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
<svg version="1.1" id="university_logo_black" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
<svg version="1.1" id="university_logo_white" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink" x="0px" y="0px"
| (206) 543-2730
ABET Accreditation: BSE
ABET Accreditation: SBSE
About
About SEFS Minors
About the Rooms
Academic and Health & Wellness Support Resources
Academic Planning Resources
Academic Policies
Adjunct Faculty
Admission to the Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management (ESRM) Major
Admission to the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) major
Admission to the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major
Admissions
Affiliate Faculty
All pathways in ESRM require the same set of ESRM Core courses, UW General Education requirements, and fundamental Science, Math, and Social Science course content. The only distinction is in the final set of upper division course requirements (40-55 credits, depending on the pathway chosen and the classes selected within that pathway).
All prospective SBSE students should be aware that while students can join the major at any time, the SBSE-prefixed courses begin in Autumn Quarter of Junior Year (year 3). Students admitted prior to this need to be completing all of the courses included in years 1 and 2 of the SBSE academic plan so they are ready to start the SBSE-prefixed courses in Autumn of year 3. There are two years (6 quarters, Autumn-Spring) of required SBSE-prefixed courses.
Alumni
AMATH 301: Beginning Scientific Computing (4 credits)
Anderson Hall, Box 352100 Seattle, WA 98195
Aquatic and Fishery Sciences
Atmospheric and Climate Science
Back to Top
Be Boundless
Best Practices for PIs
Bioconversion of biomass into biofuels and bio-based chemicals and materials.
Biodegradable fiber composites.
Biomass cultivation for the dual purposes of treating wastewater and providing biorefinery feedstock.
Biorefinery anerobic digesters to treat waste and produce renewable natural gas.
Both prospective transfer student applicants and current UW students can download this SBSE 4-year course plan document and use it to plan your required courses.
Brockman Memorial Tree Tour
BSE Academic Requirements
BSE Admissions Events
BSE Brochure
BSE Majors Considering the Switch to the SBSE Major
Business, Policy, and Economics
Business, Policy, and Economics (1 course required)
Calendars
Carbon-Related Research at SEFS
Center for Quantitative Science
Choose one course from each topic area:
Classroom Calendars
Click on Import Plan (on right side of screen)
Click on SBSE Courses and Sample 4-year Course Plan . Review all 4 years of the plan.
Climate Impacts Group
College Home
College of the Environment
Committees
Communications
Computation and Data Science
Computation and Data Science Elective list (1 course required)
Computer Resources
Contact Student & Academic Services
Contact Us
Conversion of biomass into sustainable aviation fuel.
Cooperative Institute for Climate,
Cost Share
Courses already encoded on the REEH degree audit
CSE : Data Programming (4 credits)
CSE 121/122/123/142/143: Introduction to Computer Programming (various versions) (4 credits)
Current UW students who want to download some or all of the 4-year course plan directly into MyPlan can do so by going to the SBSE sample 4-year course plan for importing into MyPlan (UW NetID required for access). Here are additional access instructions for current UW students:
Currently, the courses on each list are as follows. More courses are expected to be added.
Degree Overview
Director’s Office Staff
Director’s Welcome
Directories
Diversity, Equity and Inclusivity Committee
Doctor of Philosophy Degree (Ph.D.)
Double Degree or Double Major Opportunities and Opportunities to Minor
Download the BSE Major Brochure:
Earth and Space Sciences
EarthLab
Ecological Restoration (ECORES) Minor
ECON 200: Introduction to Microeconomics (5 credits)
ECON 201: Introduction to Macroeconomics (5 Credits)
Emeritus Faculty
Employment After Graduation: Looking for Jobs
Environmental and Forest Sciences
Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management (ESRM) Major
ESRM 235/ECON 235/ENVIR 235: Introduction to Environmental Economics (5 credits)
ESRM 320: Marketing and Management from a Sustainability Perspective (5 credits)
ESRM 321: Finance and Accounting from a Sustainability Perspective (5 credits)
ESRM 323 (5) Silviculture
ESRM 325 (3) Environmental Applications of Plants: Bioenergy and Bioremediation
ESRM 331 (3) Landscape Plant Recognition
ESRM 350 (5) Wildlife Biology and Conservation
ESRM 362 (5) Intro to Restoration Ecology
ESRM 368 (4) Natural Resources Measurements
ESRM 381 (4) Management of Wildland Recreation and Amenities
ESRM 400 (3) Natural Resource Conflict Management
ESRM 400: Natural Resource Conflict Management (3 credits)
ESRM 401 (5) Forest Ecology
ESRM 404 (5) Plant Microbiology Laboratory
ESRM 409 (5) Soil Ecology
ESRM 410 (5) Forest Soils and Site Productivity
ESRM 411 (3) Plant Propagation
ESRM 412 (3) Native Plant Production
ESRM 415 (5) Terrestrial Invasion Ecology
ESRM 420 (5) Wildland Fire Management
ESRM 421 (3) Role of Culture and Place in Natural Resource Stewardship: Yakama Nation Experience
ESRM 422 (2; max 4) Plant Microbiology Seminar
ESRM 423: International Trade, Marketing, and the Environment (3 credits)
ESRM 425 (5) Ecosystem Management
ESRM 426 (4) Wildland Hydrology
ESRM 426 (4) Wildland Hydrology OR ESRM 447 (3) Watershed Ecology and Management
ESRM 428 (5) Principles of Silviculture and Their Application
ESRM 430 (5) Hi-Res Remote Sensing
ESRM 435 (3) Insect Ecology
ESRM 435 (3) Insect Ecology OR ESRM 478 Plant Ecophysiology (5)
ESRM 447 (5) Watershed Ecology and Management
ESRM 448 (2) Watershed Ecology and Management Lab
ESRM 450 (5) Wildlife Ecology and Conservation
ESRM 458 (5) Management of Endangered, Threatened, and Sensitive Species
ESRM 459 (3) Wildlife Conservation in Northwest Ecosystems
ESRM 461/SBSE 461 (5) Forest Management and Economics
ESRM 465: Economics of Conservation (3 credits)
ESRM 468 (5) Forest Operations
ESRM 470 (5) Natural Resource Policy and Planning
ESRM Course Schedule and Major Requirements
ESRM Minor
ESRM: General Academic Requirements
ESRM: Natural Resource and Environmental Management Academic Requirements
ESRM: REEH Course Requirements
ESRM: Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture Academic Requirements
ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Academic Requirements
ESRM: Wildlife Conservation Academic Requirements
Events
Expand/contract subsection
Facebook
Facility Resources
Faculty
Faculty and Research
Field Stations and Labs
For a full listing of all requirements, please see the SBSE Major in the UW Catalog .
Forest Ecology and Biology
Forest Resource Management
Friday Harbor Laboratories
Giving
Graduate Admissions
Graduate Programs
Graduate Programs Resources and Forms
Graduate Student Directory
Graduate Student Travel Awards
Graduation
Graduation in the Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering major
High performance sensors manufactured from bio-based materials.
How Can I Learn More and Join the Mailing List?
How Do I Join the SBSE Major?
If SBSE sounds interesting to you, please contact or make an appointment with an Academic Advisor from our School , who can provide you program details and connect you with BSE faculty and/or students to find out more about the program. You may be able to do research in a SBSE lab even before picking a major or take a SBSE course if you have the right prerequisites.
In the ESRM: Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture degree option, students learn to produce plant materials, manage sustainable landscapes, and repair damaged ecosystems.
In the ESRM: Sustainable Forest Management Option, for their final credits of degree requirements students acquire the knowledge and skills to measure and assess natural resources to understand the ecology of forest systems; manage for environmental services; treat forest fuels; achieve sustainable harvest; market and sell forest products; and understand how social, economic, and ecologic forces impact the management of forests and their resources.
Inclusive Excellence at SEFS
INFO 180/CSE 180/STAT 180: Introduction to Data Science (4 credits)
instagram
Intranet
Jobs
Lab Safety
Learn more about the SBSE Major and how the Washington Pulp and Paper Foundation supports career pathways in the video below.
linkedin
Make a Gift
Maps
Marine and Environmental Affairs
Marine Biology
Master of Forest Resources (M.F.R.) Forest Management Degree
Master of Forest Resources (MFR) Forest Management Degree
Master of Science (M.S.) and Ph.D. Graduate Admissions
Master of Science (M.S.) Degree
Master of Science (M.S.)/Master of Arts in International Studies (MAIS) Concurrent Degree
Master of Science (MS)/Master of Public Administration (MPA) Concurrent Degree
McIntire-Stennis (MS) Cooperative Forestry Research Program
Meeting Room Calendars
MFR Restricted Elective Courses
My UW
News and Events
Newsletters
Ocean, and Ecosystem Studies
Oceanography
Once the classes are in your Plan, you will be able to register for the classes as normal
One course is required from each of the following two SBSE Elective Lists:
Our Admissions Section has all the information you need.
Our Legacy
Partnerships with Indigenous Tribes and Nations
Postdoctoral Scholars
Privacy
Production of nanocellulose, and other nanomaterials, from biomass.
Program on Climate Change
Program on the Environment
Proposal Templates
Prospective Graduate Student Visit Day
Public Events Calendar
Pursuing Study Abroad Opportunities
Q SCI 256: Introduction to Data Science Methods for Environmental Science (4 credits)
Quaternary Research Center
Reimagining Anderson Hall
Required REEH Option Elective Courses (complete a minimum 35 credits from this list; at least 15 credits at 400 level )
Required Sustainable Forest Management Option courses
Required Sustainable Forest Management Option Courses
Research Archive
Research Centers, Programs and Partnerships
Research Grants & Contracts
Routing Proposals & Deadlines
Sample Areas of Research Conducted by SBSE Faculty
SBSE and SBSE graduates begin careers in manufacturing, engineering, technical service, sustainability consulting, and management training. Positions include process engineer, process designers in engineering consulting firms, technical sales engineer, product development engineer, environmental engineer, research engineer, and sustainability specialists and experts in government, corporations, and NGO firms, as well as many other specialties that require a fundamental background in process engineering, bio-based processes, and sustainability. Select recent employers of SBSE alumni are featured in the BSE Brochure .
SBSE Careers and Career Support
SBSE Course Schedule and Major Requirements
SBSE Employer Recruiting Program
SBSE Faculty
SBSE graduates apply their scientific know-how, process engineering expertise, and knowledge of sustainability fundamentals to manufacturing environmentally friendly products and designing low impact, but economically viable, processes. Students in the major are also challenged to address social and cultural impacts of their engineering solutions so that any proposed bio-based product or process is truly sustainable.
SBSE in the News – for Prospective Majors
SBSE is a Minimum Requirements major, which means all students who complete the Minimum Requirements for Admission are admitted to the major. All details regarding SBSE Admission are available under SBSE Admissions .
SBSE Schedule and Major Requirements
SBSE students apply a strong science foundation and engineering problem solving skills to address many of the grand challenges facing us today. Students acquire expertise in the bio-based processes that provide a means to address grand challenges such as climate change and plastic pollution in our oceans. Production of fuels, chemicals and biodegradable materials from biomass is a route to having a truly circular economy that meets these challenges.
SBSE students are supported by the Washington Pulp and Paper Foundation (WPPF), a 501c3 organization based in our School, in acquiring engineering internships and permanent employment. Virtually all SBSE and BSE students have one or more internships before they graduate. SBSE and BSE students also receive help from SEFS Advising, the UW Career Center, and the Career Center @ Engineering in seeking employment and internships.
SBSE students can apply annually for substantial scholarship funding through the SEFS ESRM and SBSE Undergraduate Scholarship program. These scholarships are supported by our generous SEFS donors, and also by donors from the Washington Pulp and Paper Foundation (WPPF).
Schedules
Schedules are available over on the Academic Planning Resources page.
Scholarships and Other Funding
School of Environmental and Forest Sciences
Search
SEFS Advisory Committee
SEFS and UW Student Organizations
SEFS Endowed Professorships
SEFS Forms and Policies
SEFS Graduate Student Symposium
SEFS Minors
SEFS Proposal Approval
SEFS Scholarships and Funding Information
SEFS Senior Capstone Program
SEFS Student Blog
SEFS Student Internship Opportunities
SEFS Undergraduate Honors Program
sefs@uw.edu
Skip to main content Skip to footer unit links
Some students may find that earning a double degree or double major is the best way to meet their educational objectives. The two most common additional degrees SBSE students earn are with Environmental Science and Resource Management (ESRM) or with Chemical Engineering, though completing a double degree with SBSE and CHEM E is very time-consuming. Potential students interested in this possibility are encouraged to discuss their goals with the pertinent academic advisors to review your potential plan of study and to determine whether a double degree or double major is the best option to meet your educational goals, or would it be best completing only one Bachelor’s degree, and earn a Master’s degree in the second major area. Particularly with Chemical Engineering, or with Materials Science and Engineering , where it is possible to earn a Master’s degree with only one additional year of study, it is much less time consuming to earn a Bachelor’s degree in SBSE and a Master’s in one of those fields, and an SBSE degree will prepare you for graduate school in either of these areas.
Staff
Staff login
Statement of Non-Discrimination
Strategic Plan
Student Forms
Student Procedures and Policies
Students
Students admitted after Autumn quarter of Junior year (year 3) will need to be working on other courses required for the major and begin the SBSE courses in the following Autumn quarter. SBSE course content builds from quarter to quarter, with completion of previous courses a prerequisite for enrolling in courses in the following quarter, so beginning the first quarter of SBSE-prefixed courses in Autumn quarter of year 3 is required.
Students earn a B.S. in Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management. The option in Restoration Ecology and Environmental Horticulture is noted on student transcripts, not the diploma .
Students earn a B.S., Environmental Science and Terrestrial Resource Management. The Option in Sustainable Forest Management is noted on student transcripts only, not the diploma.
Students learn and apply fundamental concepts of biology, plant science, and ecology. This disciplinary knowledge, with supporting coursework and experience, allows students to become accomplished in producing plant materials, managing sustainable landscapes, repairing damaged ecosystems, and participating in large interdisciplinary projects.
Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major [formerly BSE]
Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major [formerly BSE] | School of Environmental and Forest Sciences
Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) Major Elective Lists
Sustaining Our World Lecture Series
Techno-economic and life cycle assessments of processes to produce fuels, chemicals, and materials from biomass.
Terms
The department maintains a mailing list for students interested in the SBSE major and also students who are declared pre-majors for SBSE (PREBSE-coded UW students). Current UW and non-UW students can join the PREBSE mailing list by submitting the Mailman sign-up form .
The Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering (SBSE) major combines process engineering, materials science, and sustainability fundamentals to provide students with a versatile foundation to engineer sustainable bio-based systems. Students in the major study bio-based processes and products by applying sustainability metrics and process engineering fundamentals. Graduates of the major find employment opportunities with industry, consulting firms, NGOs, and government agencies.
The Sustainable Forest Management option is accredited by the Society of American Foresters through 2027.
The University of Washington prohibits discrimination, harassment and sexual misconduct in any education program or activity that it operates. Individuals may report concerns, make complaints, or direct inquiries to the Civil Rights Compliance Office . The statement of nondiscrimination is located at: uw.edu/civilrights/policies-and-guidance/statement-of-nondiscrimination/ .
The UW offers numerous degree minors , including the ESRM minor in our School. Minors are declared with your major advisor.
To earn a B.S in Sustainable Bioresource Systems Engineering, undergraduate students complete a minimum of 180 credits.
Twitter
Undergraduate Admissions
Undergraduate Admissions Advising
Undergraduate Advising Services
Undergraduate Programs
Undergraduate Research Opportunities
University of Washington
Using ESRM 399 B section credits for your Internship
UW Botanic Gardens
UW Home
UW SEFS (@ sefs_uw ) • Instagram photos and videos
View this profile on Instagram
Washington Sea Grant
When to start the SBSE Major – Timing is Important
width="215px" height="12px" class="college-name" alt="UW College of the Environment" viewBox="33 379.4 677.4 34.6" style="enable-background:new 33 379.4 677.4 34.6;"
width="215px" height="14px" class="uw-name" viewBox="-70 381.4 469.1 31.6" style="enable-background:new -70 381.4 469.1 31.6;"
width="252.993px" height="17.033px" viewBox="0 0 252.993 17.033" enable-background="new 0 0 252.993 17.033"
Wildlife Graduate Studies
xml:space="preserve" alt="University of Washington">
xml:space="preserve">
You will have the option of downloading the courses required for the current quarter, or you can download multiple quarters or the whole Plan. If you have other courses in your plan for the quarters in question, those classes will not be deleted. Review the download instructions for more information.
