Owner: uw-seattle-anthropology:pathway:biological-anthropology
Source: https://www.washington.edu/students/gencat/program/S/Anthropology-102.html
Title: 

Program of Study: Minor: Anthropology
Minor in Anthropology
Graduate Programs
Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Archaeology)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Biological Anthropology)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Anthropology: Sociocultural Anthropology)
Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Anthropology)
Master Of Arts (Anthropology)
Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Archaeological Heritage)
Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Archaeology)
Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Biological Anthropology)
Master Of Arts (Anthropology: Sociocultural Anthropology)
Undergraduate Programs
Anthropology
310 Denny Hall
206-543-7772
anthinfo@uw.edu
Program of Study: Major: Anthropology
Program Overview
Anthropology undergraduates earn either a Bachelor of Arts (BA) or a Bachelor of Science (BS) in Anthropology. The difference between the two degrees lies in how they are structured. If you want a broad overview of Anthropology as a discipline or if you want to focus on the more humanistic side of Anthropology, the BA is for you. If you want to focus on a particular area within the more scientific side of Anthropology, you should pursue the BS.
Both degrees are appropriate for a myriad of post-baccalaureate opportunities including graduate and professional school training in the health sciences (e.g. medical school, public health, physical therapy), law, social justice advocacy, and (of course!) anthropology.
Anthropology is mainly about two things: Understanding and engagement. It seeks to make sense of this world we share and to uncover new ways to transform the world and ourselves. It takes on issues of social justice, from preserving the environment to preserving languages and culture.
This program of study leads to the following credentials:
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Anthropology of Globalization
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Archaeological Sciences
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Human Evolutionary Biology
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Indigenous Archaeology
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Anthropology: Medical Anthropology and Global Health
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Archaeological Sciences
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Human Evolutionary Biology
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Anthropology: Medical Anthropology and Global Health
Recommended Preparation
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: any 200-level ARCHY course; BIO A 201; any 200-level ANTH course; and one from CS&SS 221/SOC 221/STAT 221, STAT 220, STAT 311, Q SCI 381, or ARCHY 495.
Admission Requirements
