Owner: uw-seattle-norwegian
Source: https://scandinavian.washington.edu/ba-norwegian
Title: B.A. in Norwegian | Department of Scandinavian Studies | University of Washington

[Supplemental official source] Scandinavian Area Studies
[Supplemental official source] UW Norwegian catalog degree requirements
&copy; 2026 University of Washington . All rights reserved.
&copy; University of Washington | Seattle, WA
15 credits of first year Danish
15 credits of first year Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, or Swedish
15 credits of first year Estonian
15 credits of first year Estonian, Latvian, or Lithuanian
15 credits of first year Finnish
15 credits of first year Latvian
15 credits of first year Lithuanian
15 credits of first year Norwegian
15 credits of first year Swedish
15 credits of second year Danish
15 credits of second year Estonian
15 credits of second year Finnish
15 credits of second year Latvian
15 credits of second year Lithuanian
15 credits of second year Norwegian
15 credits of second year Swedish
20 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework
20 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework, including at least one Baltic studies course from the following: SCAND 344, SCAND 345, SCAND 454, SCAND 455
206-543-0645
318 Raitt hall
318 Raitt Hall
35 credits
5 credits of Baltic studies coursework (SCAND 344, SCAND 345, SCAND 454, or SCAND 455), or 5 credits of an upper-division language course.
5 credits of upper-division Scandinavian coursework or 5 credits of an upper-division language course
60 credits
60 credits of which 25 are on the 300 level or above (As of Autumn, 2022).
60 credits of which 25 are on the 300 level or above + 5 cr Capstone (As of Autumn, 2022).
65 credits
A B.A. in Finnish Studies opens doors in architecture, technology, arts and culture, linguistics, education and business by fostering strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Finnish, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Finland, Scandinavia and the Baltic. This innovative country is a center of business, education, and culture in Europe, and a gateway to Russia.
A B.A. in Norwegian creates opportunities to explore a country whose innovations in culture, technology, and politics shape the way we live now and the way we imagine the future. Students build advanced linguistic skills through a three-year program in language and literature. They learn about Norway, Scandinavia, and the Baltics through cultural surveys, specialized courses on literature and culture, and diverse study abroad opportunities for students studying language, science, technology, and more. Prepared with knowledge from world leaders in welfare, business, and gender equity, graduates pursue careers in business and nonprofit work, law, academia, and STEM industries across the globe.
A B.A. in Swedish fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Swedish studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women&rsquo;s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Sweden, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Sweden, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Sweden is the birthplace of world famous modern artists, Social democracy, and innovative economic and cultural practices and institutions.
A Bachelor of Arts in Norwegian Studies fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Norwegian studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women&rsquo;s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Norwegian, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Norway, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Norway is the birthplace of world famous modern artists and a leader in peace and conflict resolution and environmental philosophy.
A Bachelor of Arts in Scandinavian Area Studies fosters advanced knowledge of the culture, politics, and history of Scandinavia. It also gives strong analytical, and communication skills Scandinavian Area Studies can serve as a platform from which to explore politics, history, the environment, social democracy, and women&rsquo;s and gender studies. Students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in a Scandinavian or Baltic language, or Finnish. Scandinavia is the birthplace of world famous modern artists, Social democracy, and innovative economic and cultural practices and institutions, and is a global leader in peacemaking, environmentalism, and gender equality.
A major in Danish fosters excellent linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Danish studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women&rsquo;s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Danish, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Denmark, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Denmark is the birthplace of world famous philosophers and writers, and a leader in international business and culture.
A minor in Baltic Studies focuses on Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania (the Baltic countries), including their current politics, history and culture (literature, film, art and music). Introductory competence in one of the three languages (Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian) adds deeper understanding of European nations and identities.
A minor in Danish fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Danish studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women&rsquo;s and gender studies. Students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in Danish, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Denmark, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Denmark is the birthplace of world famous philosophers and writers, and a leader in international business and culture.
A minor in Estonian studies focuses on the north European country, Estonia, and its history, current politics, and culture (literature, film, art and music). Intermediate competence in the Estonian language adds deeper understanding of a country that is today a global leader in innovative information technology as well as music and literary arts, and a centuries-old meeting point of civilizations.
A minor in Finnish Studies opens doors in architecture, technology, arts and culture, linguistics, education and business by fostering strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in Finnish, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Finland, Scandinavia and the Baltic. This innovative country is a center of business, education, and culture in Europe, and a gateway to Russia.
A minor in Latvian studies focuses on the north European country, Latvia, and its history, current politics, and culture (literature, film, art and music). Intermediate competence in the Latvian language adds deeper understanding of a country that is today a global leader in innovative technology as well as music and literary arts, and a centuries-old meeting point of civilizations.
A minor in Lithuanian studies focuses on the north European country, Lithuania, and its history, current politics, and culture (literature, film, art and music). Intermediate competence in the Lithuanian language adds deeper understanding of a country that is today a global leader in innovative technology as well as music and literary arts, and a centuries-old meeting point of civilizations.
A minor in Norwegian Studies fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Norwegian studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women&rsquo;s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Norwegian, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Norway, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Norway is the birthplace of world famous modern artists and a leader in peace and conflict resolution and environmental philosophy.
A minor in Swedish fosters strong linguistic, analytical, and communication skills. Swedish studies can serve as a platform from which to explore art, literature and philosophy, history and politics, the environment, social democracy, and women&rsquo;s and gender studies. Students gain advanced linguistic proficiency in Sweden, and acquire cultural and historical knowledge of Sweden, Scandinavia and the Baltic. Sweden is the birthplace of world famous modern artists, Social democracy, and innovative economic and cultural practices and institutions.
About
Accessibility
Additional Information
Adjunct & Affiliate Faculty
Admission Requirements
Admissions
Admissions, Advising & Student Resources
Advising
Alumni
Alumni News
Alumni Profiles
Alumni Update
Annual Report
As part of the degree, students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in a Scandinavian or Baltic language such as Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish, Estonian, Latvian, or Lithuanian. Because most language 101 courses are available only in the fall, students should sign up for one of these classes as early as possible. If you have previous experience studying one of these languages, schedule a placement test by emailing uwscand@uw.edu .
B.A. in Norwegian
B.A. in Norwegian | Department of Scandinavian Studies | University of Washington
B.A. in Scandinavian Area Studies
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Danish
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Finnish
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Norwegian
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Scandinavian Area Studies
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Swedish
Back to Top
Baltic Studies Program
Be boundless
Box 353420
By earning a B.A. in Danish, a student acquires advanced linguistic proficiency in Danish, excellent knowledge of Denmark in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills.
By earning a B.A. in Finnish, a student acquires advanced linguistic proficiency in Finnish, excellent knowledge of Finland in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills.
By earning a B.A. in Norwegian, a student acquires advanced linguistic proficiency in Norwegian, excellent knowledge of Norway in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills.
By earning a B.A. in Scandinavian Area Studies, students acquire intermediate linguistic skill in Finnish, a Baltic language, or a Scandinavian language, as well as strong knowledge of an important economic and political region of northern Europe. It prepares students for international careers, as well as giving strong analytical and communication skills.
By earning a B.A. in Swedish, a student acquires advanced linguistic proficiency in Swedish, excellent knowledge of Sweden in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills.
By earning a minor in Danish, a student acquires intermediate linguistic proficiency in Danish, excellent knowledge of Denmark in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills.
By earning a minor in Finnish, a student acquires intermediate linguistic proficiency in Finnish, strong knowledge of Finland in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills.
By earning a minor in Norwegian, a student acquires intermediate linguistic proficiency in Norwegian, strong knowledge of Norway in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills.
By earning a minor in Scandinavian Area Studies, students acquire linguistic skill in Finnish, a Baltic language, or a Scandinavian language, as well as good knowledge of an important economic and political region of northern Europe. The minor gives good background for international careers, as well as giving strong analytical and communication skills.
By earning a minor in Swedish, a student acquires intermediate linguistic proficiency in Swedish, excellent knowledge of Sweden in a broad perspective, as well as superb and practical communication skills.
Campus Safety
Capstone Project
Careers
College of Arts & Sciences
College of Arts and Sciences
Completion Requirements
Connect with us:
Contact department for requirements.
Contact Us
Courses
Credential Overview
Credits earned during studies in Norway can be transferred in consultation with the Foreign Study Office and the Scandinavian Department.
Crossing North Podcast
Danish
Department Faculty
Department of Scandinavian Studies
Department Scholarships: The department offers several scholarships for students of Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, and Swedish.
Destinations
Directories
Dissertations
Diversity and Equity
Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Languages And Literatures)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian: Textual Studies)
Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian:Theory And Criticism)
Each of our majors has an option to pursue departmental honors . Students who are interested should meet with the undergraduate adviser to learn more about the requirements.
Emergency Resources
Estonian
Events Calendar
Facebook
Faculty
Faculty & Staff
Faculty News
Faculty Website
FAQ
Featured Courses
Fields of Interest
Finnish
First Year Norwegian 1 (NORW 101) is available only in the fall quarter. Because the core of the Norwegian major is building advanced linguistic skills over the course of three years, students should sign up for this class as early as possible. If you have previous experience studying Norwegian, schedule a placement test by emailing uwscand@uw.edu .
First- and second-year courses in Danish language (30 credits)
First- and second-year courses in Finnish language (30 credits)
First- and second-year courses in Norwegian (30 credits)
First- and second-year courses in Norwegian language (30 credits)
First- and second-year courses in Swedish language (30 credits)
First- and second-year courses in target language (Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, Swedish) (30 credits)
First- and second-year courses in target Scandinavian or Baltic language (DANISH/ESTO/FINN/LATV/LITH/NORW/SWED) (30 credits)
Frequently Asked Questions
Graduate
Graduate Programs
Graduate Students
Graduates of the Scandinavian studies program have the qualifications to embark on careers that require skills in the interpretation of information in various media, critical analysis, and effective communication and to continue in graduate programs and professional schools that value an international perspective.
History
Home
Honors Options Available: With College Honors (Completion of Honors Core Curriculum and Departmental Honors); With Honors (Completion of Departmental Honors requirements in the major). See adviser for requirements.
Icelandic
Instagram
Instructional and Research Facilities: None
Jobs
Latvian
Learning Objectives and Expected Outcomes: Graduates of the Department of Scandinavian Studies have an advanced level of proficiency in a Scandinavian, Fenno-Ugric, or Baltic language. They can talk about a wide range of concrete topics in a sustained conversation and have the ability to interpret and write about literary texts, non-fiction, and other media. Graduates also have knowledge of major figures, ideas, and institutions in Baltic or Nordic culture, history, literature, and politics that enriches a global perspective. They have the ability to research and synthesize source material in the target language and can produce a scholarly essay in English on a topic within their area of concentration.
LinkedIn
Lithuanian
M.A. Degree
Mailing List
Main menu
Main Office Hours: Mon., Wed., Fri. 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Tu., Thu. 1 to 5 p.m. Please email uwscand@uw.edu any time.
Major Requirements
Majors
Make a Gift
Maps
Master Of Arts (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Area Studies)
Master Of Arts (Scandinavian: Scandinavian Languages And Literatures)
Menu
Minor in Baltic Studies
Minor in Danish
Minor in Estonian
Minor in Finnish
Minor in Latvian
Minor in Lithuanian
Minor in Norwegian
Minor in Scandinavian Area Studies
Minor in Swedish
Minors
Mission & Characteristics
More ways to connect
My UW
MyUW
New Directions Series
News & Events
Newsletter
Non-Degree Study
NORW 310 The Norwegian Short Story
NORW 311 Drama after Ibsen
NORW 312 Topics in Norwegian Literature and Culture
NORW 321 The Plays of Henrik Ibsen
NORW 395 Foreign Study: Norwegian Area Studies
NORW 399 Foreign Study: Topics in Norwegian Literature and Culture
NORW 490 Supervised Reading
Norwegian
Organizations & Links
Other courses may be substituted per discussion with the Undergraduate Adviser.
Our Grads
Our Programs
Parents
People
Ph.D. Degree
Phone: (206) 543-0645
Pinterest
Please see our Undergraduate Programs section for information about applying to the program, career paths, scholarships, and other student resources.
Privacy
Program of Study: Doctor Of Philosophy (Scandinavian)
Program of Study: Major: Danish
Program of Study: Major: Finnish
Program of Study: Major: Norwegian
Program of Study: Major: Scandinavian Area Studies
Program of Study: Major: Swedish
Program of Study: Master Of Arts (Scandinavian)
Program of Study: Minor: Baltic Studies
Program of Study: Minor: Danish
Program of Study: Minor: Estonian
Program of Study: Minor: Finnish
Program of Study: Minor: Latvian
Program of Study: Minor: Lithuanian
Program of Study: Minor: Norwegian
Program of Study: Minor: Scandinavian Area Studies
Program of Study: Minor: Swedish
Program Overview
Programs & Courses
Publications
Quick links
Quick Links
Recent News
Recommended Preparation
Research
Research, Internships, and Service Learning: Internships at museums or with Scandinavian businesses are possible. Exchange program opportunities also exist.
Resources
Resources & Opportunities
Rules Docket
SCAND 312 Masterpieces of Scandinavian Literature
SCAND 315 Scandinavian Crime Fiction
SCAND 316 Child and School in Scandinavia
SCAND 327 Women in Scandinavian Society
SCAND 330 Scandinavian Mythology
SCAND 331 Folk Narrative
SCAND 334 Immigrant and Ethnic Folklore
SCAND 335 Scandinavian Children's Literature
SCAND 340 Kalevala and the Epic Tradition
SCAND 341 Sami Culture and History
SCAND 344 The Baltic States and Scandinavia
SCAND 345 Baltic Cultures
SCAND 360 Scandinavian Cinema
SCAND 361 Danish Cinema
SCAND 365 Finnish Popular Culture
SCAND 367 Sexuality in Scandinavia: Myth and Reality
SCAND 370 The Vikings
SCAND 380 History of Scandinavia to 1720
SCAND 381 History of Scandinavia Since 1720
SCAND 399 Foreign Study in Scandinavia
SCAND 402 International Political Economy and Scandinavia
SCAND 427 Scandinavian Women Writers in English Translation
SCAND 430 Readings in Folklore
SCAND 431 The Northern European Ballad
SCAND 445 War and Occupation in Northern Europe: History, Fiction, and Memoir
SCAND 450 Scandinavian Literary History
SCAND 454 Baltic History
SCAND 455 Baltic Politics and Society Today
SCAND 460 History of the Scandinavian Languages
SCAND 465 Translation Workshop in Nordic and Baltic Languages
SCAND 470 Scandinavian Auteurs
SCAND 480 Kierkegaard and Decadence in European Literature
SCAND 481 August Strindberg and European Cultural History
SCAND 482 Knut Hamsun and Early European Modernism
SCAND 490 Special Topics
SCAND 495 Foreign Study: Research Project
SCAND 498 (5 credits)
SCAND 498 Senior Capstone Project(5 credits)
SCAND 499 Independent Study or Research
Scandinavian Area Studies
Scandinavian Studies
Scandinavian studies is concerned with the study of languages, literature, history, politics, and cultures of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania. Emphasis is placed both on contemporary literature and culture and on historical development. Although most courses designed for majors are taught in the original languages, a broad spectrum of courses designed primarily for nonmajors is offered in English.
Scholarships
Scholarships & Stipends
Search
Seattle, WA 98195-3420
Share
Site Map
Skip to main content
Staff
Stay Connected
Student Employees
Student Organizations/Associations: the Danish Club, the Norwegian Club, the Swedish Club, and the Finnish Club.
Student Outcomes and Opportunities
Students
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Danish beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework.
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, or Swedish beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework.
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Estonian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework.
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Estonian, Latvian, or Lithuanian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Finnish beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework.
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Latvian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework.
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Lithuanian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework.
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Norwegian beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework.
Students entering the UW with language proficiency in Swedish beyond the first year of language training must take an additional 10 credits of upper-division language courses and must earn a minimum total of 25 credits in relevant coursework.
Students in good academic standing may declare this major at any time.
Students who earn a B.A. in Scandinavian Area Studies develop a new, enhanced understanding of the world through studying the culture, politics, and history of Scandinavia. The program provides diverse options for students to learn, including small, seminar-style classes; interdisciplinary study abroad opportunities ; and exceptional programs to connect to Scandinavian and Baltic communities on or near campus. Students develop strong linguistic, research, and communication skills in a welcoming, inclusive academic environment. Prepared with knowledge from world leaders in welfare, business, and gender equity, graduates pursue careers in business and nonprofit work, law, academia, and STEM industries across the globe.
Students with a minor in Baltic Studies demonstrate excellent knowledge of three European Union countries and their people. They can communicate in one of the three national languages &ndash; Estonian, Latvian or Lithuanian. To their major degree they add a global perspective, and specialized knowledge about a complex region rich with creative arts and innovative technology.
Students with a minor in Estonian Studies demonstrate excellent knowledge of this European country and its people. They can communicate in the Estonian language. To their major degree they add a global perspective, with specialized knowledge about a country rich in creative arts and innovative technology.
Students with a minor in Latvian Studies demonstrate excellent knowledge of this European country and its people. They can communicate in the Latvian language. To their major degree, they add a global perspective, with specialized knowledge about a country rich in creative arts and innovative technology.
Students with a minor in Lithuanian Studies demonstrate excellent knowledge of this European country and its people. They can communicate in the Lithuanian language. To their major degree, they add a global perspective, with specialized knowledge about a country rich in creative arts and innovative technology.
Study Abroad
Submit an Update
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Danish
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Norwegian, or Swedish.
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Finnish
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Norwegian
Suggested First- and Second-Year College Courses: First- and second-year Swedish
Summer Study
Support Scandinavian Studies
Support Us
Swedish
Terms
The minor in Scandinavian Area Studies fosters advanced knowledge of the culture, politics, and history of Scandinavia. It also gives strong analytical, and communication skills Scandinavian Area Studies can serve as a platform from which to explore politics, history, the environment, social democracy, and women&rsquo;s and gender studies. Students gain intermediate linguistic proficiency in a Scandinavian or Baltic language, or Finnish. Scandinavia is the birthplace of world famous modern artists, Social democracy, and innovative economic and cultural practices and institutions, and is a global leader in peacemaking, environmentalism, and gender equality.
This program of study leads to the following credential:
This program of study leads to the following credentials:
Twitter
Undergraduate
Undergraduate Programs
University of Washington
Upcoming Courses
Upper-division courses in Danish language. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits)
Upper-division courses in Finnish language. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits)
Upper-division courses in Norwegian from list of approved courses. (10 credits)
Upper-division courses in Norwegian language. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits)
Upper-division courses in Swedish language. See department for list of approved courses. (10 credits)
Upper-division SCAND courses from list of approved courses. (15 credits)
Upper-division SCAND courses from list of approved courses. (25 credits)
Upper-division SCAND courses. See department for list of approved courses. (15 credits)
Upper-division SCAND courses. See department for list of approved courses. (30 credits)
User account menu
UW-Bergen Faculty Exchange
uwscand@uw.edu
Visiting Scholar Application
Washington
Website
Welcome
You are here
YouTube
