Owner: uw-tacoma-mathematics
Source: https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/sias/sam/mathematics
Title: Mathematics | Department of Sciences and Mathematics | University of Washington Tacoma

TMATH 496 Mathematical Internship
TMATH 498 Directed Readings in Mathematics
TMATH 499 Undergraduate Research in Mathematics
TCSS 321 Discrete Structures I (May open to math majors in Registration Period III. See section details linked in MyPlan.)
Any additional courses beyond the required 5 credits from the extended core list.
Capstone (5 credits)
TMATH 450 , the Mathematics Capstone class, is designed to both provide opportunities to earn Mathematics Community Points and to hone students' technical communication skills. Students must complete a research experience such as an independent reading, undergraduate research experience, special topics course, internship or senior thesis before enrolling so that they can draw upon the experience and results when creating their paper and presentation.
To prepare to enroll in TMATH 450, the Capstone project should be started no later than the summer before 450 is to be taken. The Capstone experience culminates in a paper, which is used as a basis for enrollment in TMATH 450 in Winter quarter. The paper must be 75 percent complete to be considered for enrollment in TMATH 450, which is required for graduation. Students in TMATH 450 must earn marks at or above 1.5, and must co-enroll in TMATH 351 .
ADVISOR
Toni Woodman
Connect with Advising
Academic Planning Resources
MAJOR COORDINATOR
Professor Ruth Vanderpool
Professor Zaher Kmail
DEPARTMENT
Department of Sciences and Mathematics (SAM)
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES
Actuarial Science
Database and Computer Systems Administration
Education
Government
Engineering
Network and Data Communication Analysis
Physics
Post-graduate Studies
Quantitative Finance
Statistical Analysis
ADMISSION REQUIREMENTS
A minimum of 45 lower-division credits is required before declaring the major. To declare the Mathematics major, students should reach out to the major academic advisor .
DEGREE REQUIREMENTS
For a BS in Mathematics, students must complete 79 major credits, as well as the UWT general education and graduation requirements totaling a minimum of 180 credits.
Capstone Archive
Mathematics Portfolio Requirements
Course Repeats
Contact
Department of Sciences and Mathematics
ACADEMICS
Academic advising
Academic calendar
Canvas
Library
Schools and programs
Study Abroad
Teaching and Learning Center
CAMPUS
Campus Safety
Equity & Inclusion
Financial Aid
Housing
Information Technology
Student Life
University YMCA Student Center
ABOUT UW TACOMA
Administration
Admissions
Institutional Research
Jobs
