Owner: uw-tacoma-social-welfare
Source: https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/swcj/basw-curriculum
Title: BASW Curriculum | School of Social Work & Criminal Justice | University of Washington Tacoma

TSOCWF 430 Children of Incarcerated Parents (5 cr)
TSOCWF 433 Trauma-informed Interventions with Systems-impacted People (5 cr)
TSOCWF 436 Contemporary Social Work in Criminal Justice Settings (5 cr)
TSOCWF 490 Research in Social Welfare (1-3 cr, max. 10 cr)
GENERAL ELECTIVES
The courses you take to meet the requirements for your degree will not always total the 180 credits you need to graduate. The additional credits you need to bring your total to 180 are called "general electives." Students may choose from a variety of disciplines outside their major to fulfill general electives.
Please note: Students with admission deficiencies or Social Welfare prerequisite deficiencies must meet with an academic advisor regarding completion of deficiencies. Also, students who have not met the minimum of at least 20 credits of Arts and Humanities (A&H), 20 credits of Natural Sciences (NSc) and 20 credits of Social Sciences (SSc) within their lower-division course work must meet with the program advisor regarding selection of appropriate courses within an elective category to complete these Areas of Inquiry (A of I) requirements.
Curriculum overview
Students complete the required BASW core curriculum in sequence over a two-year period. The BASW curriculum consists of a 58-credit program, offered through a hybrid schedule, comprised of three major areas: foundation courses, social work practice courses and practicum (field experience) combined with practicum seminars. In addition to these three areas, students will be required to complete 10 credits of upper-division Social Welfare electives. General electives may also be required depending upon the number of college level credits applied toward the degree.
To qualify for graduation with a Bachelor of Arts in Social Welfare a student must complete a minimum of 180 credits as outlined:
CATEGORY
CREDITS
College-level credits: General Education, Prerequisites, and electives
75 (minimum)
Core courses
58
Social Welfare electives
10
General electives
Varies
Total
180
BASW Model Program of Study
The Model Program of Study shows a typical progression for the degree. To qualify for graduation with a Bachelor of Arts in Social Welfare, students must complete a minimum of 180 quarter credits. Below is an example curriculum plan based on entry to the major with at least 90 college-level credits already completed.
Year 1 in BASW Program
AUTUMN
WINTER
SPRING
SUMMER
TSOCWF 301
Professionalism in Social Work (2)
TSOCWF 300
Historical Approaches (5)
