Owner: uw-tacoma-environmental-sustainability:pathway:policy-law-option
Source: https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/sias/sam/environmental-sustainability
Title: Environmental Sustainability | Department of Sciences and Mathematics | University of Washington Tacoma

[Supplemental official source] major academic advisor
[Supplemental official source] UWT general education
* Students with last names starting with S-Z
<a href="/sias"
<a href="/sias/sam"
<a href="https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/"
>Department of Sciences and Mathematics
>Home
>School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
253-692-4450
253-692-5718
Academic advising
Academic Advising
Academic calendar
ACADEMICS
add
Admission Requirements
Admissions
Advising
Advising Appointments: Appointments can be scheduled using the links below. Students should prepare for their advising appointments by reviewing their academic records (degree audit, transcript, etc.), major requirements , and course offerings in MyPlan . When you schedule an appointment, your advisor is setting aside this time just for you. If you cannot attend your appointment, please cancel your appointment online or email your advisor as soon as possible. If you are over 10 minutes late for an advising meeting, you will need to reschedule.
Advisor contact information and scheduling links can be found below.
Arts and Humanities (A&H): 20 credits
Arts, Media, Culture
As part of the degree requirements, students must complete approximately 85 credits of general education coursework:
As the university prioritizes students completing their first degree, post-baccalaureate students may have later registration times than standard undergraduates which can limit access to certain classes that fill up quickly.
Autumn quarter - June 1
Bachelor of Arts
Biomedical Sciences
Breadcrumb
Brian Burhenn
Business/Nonprofit Environmental Sustainability Option (20 credits)
CAMPUS
Campus Safety
Canvas
Capstone (3+ credits)
Capstone experience: must select at least a 3-credit option from the following list.
Choose four or more courses from the following list to total at least 20 credits:
class="breadcrumb--home-icon uwt-icon" title="UW Tacoma Homepage"
Communication
Complete GIS or REN certificate program. (Planned with faculty advisor; may span more than one quarter.)
Complete the following three courses:
Connect with your advisor quarterly to make sure you are on track to graduate. We look forward to meeting you!
Contact
Contact information
Contact your academic advisor if you have questions about how your coursework fulfills these requirements.
Core courses (40 credits)
Courses in TARTS, TAMST, TFILM, TLIT, TWRT; select courses from other subject areas may count
Courses in TBIOL, TCHEM, TESC, TMATH, TPHYS, TCSS; select courses from other subject areas may count
Courses in TEGL, THIST, TLAWPL, TPPE, TPSYCH, TSOC; select courses from other subject areas may count
Courses such as Macroeconomics, Microeconomics, General Chemistry, Statistics, and others may fulfill this requirement
Courses that focus on sociocultural, political, and economic diversity of human experience
Current Students
Currently declared students have the following options for accessing advising support:
Declared SIAS Major Students
Diversity (DIV): 5 credits
Economics and Policy Analysis
Economics and Policy Analysis (EPA)
Email: bburhenn@uw.edu
Email: siasadv@uw.edu
Email: You are always welcome to directly email your advisor with any questions you might have (advisor contact information below). If you are not sure who to contact, please email our main account at SIASadv@uw.edu . Please include your student ID number in your emails, and always send emails from your UW email address.
English Composition (C): 5 credits
Environmental Communication Option (20 credits)
Environmental Education Option (20 credits)
Environmental Policy and Law Option (20 credits)
Environmental Science
Environmental Sustainability
Equity & Inclusion
Ethnic, Gender and Labor Studies
expand_more
Faculty & Staff
Fax Number
Financial Aid
Find your advisor
For admissions related questions, please reach out to Office of Admissions .
For questions regarding the admission and application process, please see the Post-baccalaureate Admissions from the Office of Admissions and reach out to them directly with any questions or concerns about the process. They can be reached at uwtinfo@uw.edu or 253-692-4742.
General Education Requirements
Global Studies Concentration
Have 40 earned college credits and have decided on an IAS major.
Have 90 earned college credits and are considering an IAS major.
Have met with a pre-major advisor who has referred you to work with an IAS advisor.
History
Housing
iashelp@uw.edu
If you have any questions please reach out to your assigned advisor.
Incoming students with less than 40 transfer credits should start by working with a pre-major advisor in University Academic Advising.
Incoming UW Tacoma Students
Information Technology
Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences
Law and Policy
Library
Location: WCG 424
M-F 9a.m.-5p.m.
Main Content
Majors:
Make sure you have sent UWT all of your college transcripts. Because official transcripts can take a few weeks to be received and processed, please also have your current unofficial transcripts available to reference while meeting with an advisor.
Map
Mathematics
Meet with your advisor. Advisor contact information and scheduling links can be found below. Action items 1-4 must be completed before meeting with an advisor. Students are invited to start meeting with advisors on specific dates depending on the quarter in which they plan to start attending UWT. These dates are listed below. If needed, students can reach out to advisors before the dates below via email.
Monday-Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Most students who transfer from another college have already completed many of these requirements. Any requirements that aren't complete when a transfer student is admitted to UW Tacoma become part of the student's degree program.
MyUW
Natural Sciences (NSc): 20 credits
New transfer students starting Autumn 2026 or later: Please see the incoming student action items and advising dates listed in the Incoming Student section below.
Newly admitted UW Tacoma students with 40 or more transfer credits, who have declared in or are intending to declare an IAS major, should complete the following steps to prepare for registration and advising.
NOTES:
Office Hours:
One course may be part of the major requirements for students in majors such as Communication, History (all tracks), PP&E (all tracks), Law & Policy, Psychology, and Writing Studies
One of the following:
Online lab courses will not be accepted in the Environmental Sustainability major and cannot serve as pre-requisites for subsequent SAM courses. Exceptions will be made for online lab courses that were completed between Spring 2020 and Spring 2022.
Open Public Meetings
Operating Hours:
Our advisors are student-centered professionals who aim to guide and challenge students through their academic careers. Our mission is to engage students in meaningful conversations that require them to think critically and learn life skills. We strive to successfully prepare students for graduation from the University of Washington Tacoma to enhance the impact they make in our local and global communities.
Please connect with the advisor for your program via email.
Please follow the steps below, based on your student status, to connect with an SIAS Advisor.
Politics, Philosophy and Economics (PP&E)
Post-baccalaureate (sometimes called "fifth-year") is a matriculated status (degree-seeking), reserved for students who are working toward a second bachelor’s degree. Only a small number of applicants are admitted each year as post-baccalaureates because the university’s primary commitment is to undergraduates who are completing their first degree. If you have completed or will complete an equivalent four-year bachelor’s degree before enrolling, you must apply as a post-baccalaureate student.
Post-baccalaureate Registration
Post-baccalaureate Students
Preparatory courses (37-38 credits)
Preparatory courses must have been completed within the last 5 years. If they were completed before that time frame please consult an academic advisor .
Prospective Students
Psychology
Psychology*
Reasoning (RSN): 5 credits
Resources
Returning or Dropped Students
Review MyPlan and Register.UW : https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/registrar/registration#permalink-15488. These are tools you will use to plan for future schedules and to complete the registration process each quarter. You can also find registration tutorials on Youtube.
Review your major requirements .
Schedule with Brian
School of Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences
Schools and programs
Science and mathematics students should also review the academic planning tools on the SAM Advising page. Students pursuing the Environmental Science, Mathematics, or Biomedical Sciences majors must watch the corresponding major orientation video and complete the action items outlined in the video.
Sciences and Mathematics
Shelli Veal
SIAS Advising Services
SIAS Advisors
SIAS Scholarships
SIAS Student Advisory Council
Social Sciences
Social Sciences (SSc): 20 credits
Some courses may fulfill more than one general education category at the same time. For example, a course might be a Writing course and also an Arts and Humanities (A&H). Courses that are both A&H and Social Science (SSc) can only fulfill one general education area.
Spanish Language and Cultures
Spring quarter - February 10
Student Advising Mentors: For assistance navigating UWT academic planning tools (including MyPlan, degree audits, time schedules, and MyUW), connect with the Student Advising Mentors online or in person: https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/advising.
Student Life
Students hoping to return after an absence of more than one quarter (excluding summer quarter) should complete the returning student process outlined on the UWT Registrar's website.
Students who have been dropped from the university due to low scholarship can petition for reinstatement . To be considered, the reinstatement petition must be submitted to your academic advisor three weeks prior to the start of the quarter. The petition will be forwarded to the department chair for review and, if approved, forwarded to the registrar's office for processing. Students who have not attended UWT for more than one quarter (excluding summer) will also need to complete the returning student process .
Students who have not yet been admitted to UW Tacoma are invited to reach out to SIAS advisors via email. Have questions about major requirements, prerequisites, transfer courses, etc.? Find the advisor for your intended major below.
Study Abroad
TBGEN 212 Introduction to Corporate Responsibility
TBIOL 110 General Biology (with lab); minimum 1.5 GPA
TBIOL 232 Issues in Biological Conservation
TBIOMD 490 Context for Global Health Experiential Learning AND TBIOMD 491 Global Health Experiential Learning Program
TBUS 300 Managing Organizations
TCHEM 131 Chemistry and Society (with lab); minimum 1.7 GPA
TCOM 275 Writing, Reporting and Editing for the Mass Media
TCOM 310 Contemporary Environmental Issues and the Media
TCOM 312 Ecology, Inequality and Pop Culture
TCOM 482 Investigative Reporting
Teaching and Learning Center
TECON 200 Introduction to Microeconomics ; minimum 2.0 GPA
TECON 210 Ethics and Economics
TECON 410 Economics of Public Policy
TECON 421 Environmental Policy
TEDUC 290 Introduction to Teaching
TEGL 304 Indigenous Ethnoecology
TESC 201 The Science of Environmental Sustainability
TESC 301 Sustainability in Action
TESC 345 Pollution and Public Policy
TESC 404 Navigating the Science Policy Interface
TESC 495 Environmental Research Experiences
TESC 496 Internship
TESC 497 Senior Thesis
TESC 499 UG Research
TEST 200 Fundamentals of Environmental Studies and Sustainability
TEST 337 Natural Resources Policy: America's Public Forests and Parks
TEST 495 Environmental Studies Experience
TGEOS 243 Geography of the Physical Environment ; minimum 2.0 GPA
TGEOS 341 Climate Change
The BA in Environmental Sustainability prepares students to understand, analyze and solve environmental and sustainability challenges. The major combines interdisciplinary foundations in environmental sciences, including natural and social sciences with training in communications, writing, law, critical perspectives and emerging sustainability science. Students choose one of four options for in-depth study.
This is especially true in the Department of Science and Mathematics (SAM) as some introductory science and math courses may be restricted to undergraduate students during Registration Period 1. Review individual course listings in the time schedule for details. It should also be noted that any priority status in registration does not supersede registration restrictions. This means that spots in these courses are not guaranteed for post-baccalaureate students.
TLAW 339 Washington Environmental Law
TLAW 438 Federal Environmental Law
TLAW 465 Law and Public Policy in the United States
TLIT 237 Introduction to Literature and Environment
TMATH 110 Introductory Statistics with Applications ; minimum 2.0 GPA
TMGMT 420 Managing Corporate Responsibility
TMGMT 452 The Dynamics of Leadership
TMGMT 457 Negotiation and Conflict Management
TMGMT 465 Board Governance I (If not taken as capstone experience.)
TMGMT 465 Board Governance I AND TMGMT 466 Board Governance II
TMGMT 466 Board Governance II (If not taken as capstone experience.)
Tools
TPHIL 251 Data and Discourse ; minimum 2.0 GPA
TPHIL 456 Environmental Ethics
TPOLS 203 Introduction to International Relations
TPOLS 270 Introduction to Political Economy
TRELIG 350 Religion, Philosophy and the Environment
TWRT 211 Argument and Research in Writing OR TWRT 291 Technical Communication in the Workplace (whichever one was not taken as preparatory course)
TWRT 211 Argumentation and Research ; minimum 2.0 GPA OR TWRT 291 Technical Communication in the Workplace ; minimum 2.0 GPA
TWRT 331 Writing in the Natural Sciences
TWRT 372 Writing Eco-Poetry
TWRT 388 Writing for Social Change
TWRT 389 Nature Writing
TWRT 391 Advanced Technical Communication
University YMCA Student Center
UW Tacoma Pre-major Students
UW Tacoma pre-major students who have earned 45 college credits and meet their intended major's pre-admission requirements can reach out directly to an IAS major advisor to get declared and to address any academic planning needs.
UW Tacoma pre-majors who have not yet fulfilled their major's pre-admission requirements are invited to work directly with IAS major advisors if they meet any of the criteria below:
We are glad you have chosen to be part of the University of Washington Tacoma community and are investing time in planning your academic career.
Winter quarter - October 25
Writing (W): 10 credits
Writing Studies
You are strongly urged to contact the academic program you are interested in before applying to UW Tacoma. Each major has its own requirements and prerequisites, so it is very important that you discuss your qualifications and academic goals with an academic advisor from the appropriate academic program. Whether or not previous coursework can apply toward graduation requirements is determined by program faculty and advisors.
