Owner: uw-tacoma-urban-studies:pathway:community-engagement-option
Source: https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/urban-studies/ba-urban-studies
Title: BA in Urban Studies | School of Urban Studies | University of Washington Tacoma

[Supplemental official source] BA in Sustainable Urban Development
* Students choosing the Community Engagement formal option cannot apply T URB 220 to their foundation course credits.
** Note : GIS Certificate courses are sequential and cohort-based. Students must apply to the certificate program by posted deadlines and contact the Academic Advisor to discuss course planning.
*** Students choosing the GIS formal option cannot apply T GIS 311 to their foundation course credits.
*Note : GIS Certificate courses are sequential and cohort-based. Students must apply to the certificate program by posted deadlines and contact the Academic Advisor to discuss course planning.
*Note : GIS Certificate courses are sequential, cohort based, and must be passed with a minimum grade of 2.5 each class. Please make sure to apply to the certificate program by posted deadlines and contact the Academic Advisor to discuss course planning.
253-692-5880
5 credits of English composition
A. Community Development & Planning
A. Community Engagement
Admission Requirements
Advanced GIS courses (no longer offered) : Select two courses from the list below:
Advantages of our program
alt="UW Tacoma Urban Studies 4">
Any T SUD or T URB course not among the required courses may be counted as a SUD major elective. A a maximum of 10 credits total of T URB or T SUD independent research or internship credit may be counted toward these 20 credits. In addition, any of the following courses may be counted as a major elective course toward the SUD major:
Apply analytic and quantitative skills to assess and develop strategies to resolve urban issues
Approach urban issues from an interdisciplinary perspective
arrow_back_ios
arrow_forward_ios
B. GIS & Spatial Planning (9 courses)
B. GIS Certificate
BA in Urban Studies students will choose from two formal options: Community Engagement or Geographic Information Systems (GIS). The degree starts with an introduction to the discipline of urban studies with course topics on the history and evolution of cities, urban research, and urban studies "in practice". The formal options deliver focused theory and skill-based courses that teach how to understand and impact the local and global dynamics of urban society.
BA Urban Studies: Community Engagement
BA Urban Studies: Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Career and graduate school workshops
Choose 2 of the following:
Close interaction with faculty and staff
Collaboration with communities and institutions
Compare and contrast approaches used in designing and undertaking research in urban studies
Complete all of the following:
Completion of a minimum of 40 college-level credits
Contact
Contact the School of Urban Studies Academic Advisor to help track your progress through the program.
Create an interdisciplinary curriculum that allows students to understand the complex inter-relationships that make up the urban environment and permits them to approach problems from a variety of perspectives
Cumulative GPA of 2.00 in all college coursework
Curriculum
Degree Options
Demonstrate appreciation for diverse nature of urban populations and social justice issues many of these populations face
Demonstrate effective written and oral communication skills
Diverse and growing student body
Equip students with the analytical skills needed to undertake research in an urban milieu
Equip students with the knowledge and skills necessary to pursue careers related to the multi-faceted nature of urban studies
Examines the production and development of cities from different community perspectives and teaches how cities are planned and built, and the power dynamics that influence inclusion and exclusion from urban spaces and political processes. Explores new strategies and builds new skills in community engagement for producing better cities and improving urban conditions.
First-year students will need to be admitted to UW Tacoma and complete the above requirements prior to declaring your major.
Flexible class offerings
For students admitted to the major before spring 2026.
Formal Options
Formal options ( choose one option ) (25 credits)
Formal options ( choose one option) (20-29 credits)
Foundation Courses (22 credits, all required)
Foundation courses (22 credits)
Foundation Courses (25 credits, choose 5 courses)
Foundation courses (25-26 credits)
Foundation courses (27 credits)
General Electives
GIS Certificate *: Complete all 5 courses listed below:
GIS Certificate **: Complete all 5 courses listed below:
GIS Certificate classes: Students pursuing the GIS track must pass each GIS course with a 2.5 or better.
Graduates are prepared for public or private-sector jobs in areas such as housing and community development, planning, transportation, government agencies, and social services. The program is also excellent preparation for those interested in graduate study in such fields as community development, public administration, law or urban planning/design.
Graduation Requirements
Graduation Requirements:
How to Declare Your Major
If you are a current UW Tacoma student
If you are not a current UW Tacoma Student
If you have completed the prerequisites listed below, you can be considered for admission to the Bachelor of arts in Urban Studies:
In addition to the coursework required for the major, students are required to complete general university requirements and electives, and to bring their total number of credits to 180. Running regular degree audits and asking your advisor for a degree planning worksheet here will help track your progress through the program.
In addition to the coursework required for the major, students are required to complete general university requirements and electives, and to bring their total number of credits to 180. The degree planning worksheet can help track your progress through the program.
In addition to the coursework required for the major, students are required to complete general university requirements and electives, and to bring their total number of credits, including the above requirements, to 180.
In order to graduate, all UW students are expected to meet general university requirements , many of which can be fulfilled with transfer and/or lower-division coursework:
Instill an awareness of problems and issues confronting metropolitan areas
Interdisciplinary and innovative course of study
Introductory courses (11 credits)
Introductory Courses (11 credits)
Keeping in mind these goals, graduates of the program are expected to:
Major electives (20 credits)
Major Electives (20 credits)
Major GPA: minimum 2.0 in each course required for the major
Major Requirements
Major Requirements:
Meet with the School of Urban Studies Academic Advisor to discuss degree requirements and submit a declaration of major form.
Methods courses (10-11 credits)
Methods courses (16 credits)
Methods Requirement (10-11 credits)
Overall goals
Overall GPA: minimum 2.0 cumulative
Please visit the UW Tacoma Admissions website to submit the appropriate application or to connect with them.
Prepares students to solve complex social, economic, and environmental problems by combining GIS (geographic information systems) based approaches to mapping and spatial analysis with a classical and theoretically critical foundation in urban studies.
Program Overview
Provide students with a broad understanding of the problems and prospects of our metropolitan areas
Provide students with an understanding of the form and function of cities
Scholarship opportunities
School of Urban Studies
Select 4 courses from the list below:
Shared Curriculum courses (20 credits)
Shared Curriculum Courses (20 credits)
sizes="(min-width: 851px) 1940px, (max-width: 851px) 600px"
Small class sizes
Specific objectives
Step 1: To declare Urban Studies as your major, please contact the Academic Advisor to discuss your academic plan.
Step 2: An official request will be submitted on your behalf to the Registrar's Office.
Students admitted prior to spring 2026 may complete their current degree requirements, or speak with their academic advisor about changing to the new curriculum.
Students admitted prior to spring 2026 may continue under their existing degree requirements or speak with an advisor about changing to the new degree plan.
Students declare one of the following formal options:
Study abroad opportunities
T GEOG 101 Introduction to Geography
T GEOG 210 Geographies of Global Change
T GEOG 321 Urban Geography
T GEOG 349 Geography and International Trade
T GIS 311 Maps & GIS (6)
T GIS 311 Maps & GIS (6) ***
T GIS 311 Maps and GIS (6 credits)
T GIS 312 Intermediate GIS (6)
T GIS 313 Applied GIS and Project Design (3)
T GIS 350 Remote Sensing (5)
T GIS 414 Advanced GIS (5)
T GIS 415 Critical GIS and Project Practicum (5)
T GIS 450 Participatory Mapping (5)
T GIS 460 Cartography and Data Visualization (5)
T GIS 470 GIS Scripting and Automation (5)
T SUD 222 Introduction to Sustainability (5)
T SUD 240 The City and Nature (5)
T SUD 444 Green Internationalism and the City (5)
T SUD 445 Urban Ecology (5)
T SUD 475 Community and Economy (5)
T SUD courses and descriptions
T UDE 210 Introduction to Urban Design History & Theory
T UDE 260 Introduction to Urban Design (Urban Design Studio I)
T UDE 310 Social Production of Space (5)
T UDE 340 Urban Social Change (5)
T URB 101 Exploring Cities (5)
T URB 102 City in World Development (5) T URB 110 Urban Data Analysis
T URB 102 City in World Development T URB 110 Urban Data Analysis (5)
T URB 103 Urban Studies in Practice (1)
T URB 103 Urban Studies in Practice (3)
T URB 110 Urban Data Analysis (5)
T URB 200 Introduction to Urban Research (5)
T URB 200 Urban Research (5)
T URB 210 Urban Society & Culture (5)
T URB 220 Introduction to Urban Planning (5)
T URB 225 Statistics for Urban Analysis (5)
T URB 225 Statistics for Urban Analysis (5) or T GIS 311 Maps & GIS (6)
T URB 235 Community Development (5)
T URB 250 Immigration, Race, & American Cities (5)
T URB 312 Race and Poverty in Urban America (5)
T URB 316 Cities and Belonging (5)
T URB 345 Urban Governance (5)
T URB 379 Urban Field Experience (5)
T URB 403 Professional Development for Urban Careers (2)
T URB 432 Understanding Metropolitan Regions (5)
T URB 470 Creating the Urban Narrative (5)
T URB 479 Planning & Development in the Puget Sound Region (5)
T URB 480 Housing in the United States (5)
T URB 480 Housing in the US (5)
T URB 498 Urban Studies Internship (5)
T URB courses and descriptions
TESC 201 The Science of Sustainability
TEST 332 A Natural History of Garbage
The balance of credits needed to meet University credit requirements are general electives. Students may focus on an in-depth area of study (i.e., a minor or certificate) or explore the liberal arts, business, social work or health-related fields; or may take further T URB or T SUD courses. Transfer credits from other institutions may apply toward general electives.
The curriculum consists of 63-73 credits, depending on formal option and course selection:
The curriculum consists of 70-71 credits, depending on formal option and course selection:
The curriculum consists of 74 credits of required courses:
The degree starts with an introduction into the discipline of urban studies with course topics on exploring cities, world development, and urban studies "in practice." The core courses provide foundational content related to urban sustainability, and major electives allow students to focus on topics that interest them. Graduates will be prepared for careers in planning agencies, corporations adhering to sustainability practices, consulting firms, nonprofit organizations, and environmental/resource related agencies at the local, state, and federal levels of government. The degree is also excellent training for further graduate study in fields such as urban planning, public administration, and law.
The School of Urban Studies offers a Bachelor of Arts in Urban Studies. Beginning in spring 2026, we are excited to announce the introduction of revised degree requirements and options designed to better prepare our students to answer the challenges facing our cities today and into the future.
The Urban Studies major admits students every quarter.
To serve as a resource, through service and research, to communities in the South Sound region
Transfer students meeting the above requirements may apply directly to the major.
Urban setting
Urban Studies majors select one of two formal options: Community Engagement or Geographic Information Systems (GIS) .
uwturban@uw.edu
