Owner: uw-tacoma-education:pathway:special-education-dual-endorsement
Source: https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/soe/bachelor-arts-education
Title: Bachelor of Arts in Education | School of Education | University of Washington Tacoma

- Select - I am registered for classes at UW Tacoma I am applying to transfer to UW Tacoma autumn quarter 2023 I am applying as a Running Start freshman to UW Tacoma autumn quarter 2023 I am a returning former UWT student (last quarter enrolled spring 2022 or earlier) Other
- Select - Special Education English Language Learners (ELL)
- Select - Yes No
(e.g. 2011223)
[Supplemental official source] BA in Education Application
15 MB limit.
About the degree
add
Admission to the BA in Education program may be declared following the completion of 45 credits of college coursework which includes:
Admission to the BA in Education program may be declared if following requirements are met:
Admissions Requirements
Advanced Programs
All BA in Education prerequisite courses must be completed prior to the start of the quarter of admission. Selecting "No" suggests you are not eligible for admission for autumn quarter 2022. Please contact us at uwted@uw.edu or talk to your advisor before continuing with this application.
Allowed types: gif, jpg, jpeg, png, bmp, eps, tif, pict, psd, txt, rtf, html, odf, pdf, doc, docx, ppt, pptx, xls, xlsx, xml, avi, mov, mp3, ogg, wav, bz2, dmg, gz, jar, rar, sit, svg, tar, zip.
Along with the Elementary Endorsement that is part of the degree, you must select one Specialty Endorsement.
Application deadlines are:
Applications are currently being accepted.
at least 45 credits of completed college coursework
Autumn
BA in Education Application
Call: (253) 692-4430
Contact an Advisor
Current & Prospective Students
CURRENT UW TACOMA students may complete the BA in Education Application
Deadline Date
Did you complete any of the prerequisite courses outside of a University of Washington campus?
Doctoral Program in Educational Leadership (EdD)
Education Prerequisite completion verification
Education Service Learning
Educational Administration Program (Principal Certification)
Educational Specialist in School Psychology (EdS)
Email
Email: uwted@uw.edu
Endorsement offerings for Practicing Educators
expand_more
Field and Program Contacts (OFP&P)
First name
High need or shortage area credentials
Hiring Now
How to apply
I have reviewed the School of Education admission requirements for the BA degree and all prerequisites are completed
If you are NOT CURRENTLY a UW Tacoma student, you must first apply for admission to UW Tacoma.
If you selected Other, please describe your status here
Introduction to Ethnic Studies
Introduction to Psychology
Last name
Main Content
Map
March 10th
Master of Education (MEd) for Practicing Educators
Master of Education (MEd) with Elementary Education Certification
Master of Education (MEd) with Secondary Education 5-12 Certification in the Sciences or Mathematics
Multiple endorsement options
MyUW
November 15th
Office of Field Placements & Partnerships (OFP&P)
One college-level English Composition course with a minimum grade of 2.0
One file only.
Only fields with a red asterisk (*) are required.
OPTION 1: SPECIAL EDUCATION DUAL ENDORSEMENT
OPTION 2: ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNERS (ELL) DUAL ENDORSEMENT
Personal Statement Upload
Please name your personal statement in the following format: Last Name_First Name (i.e. Jones_Chris). Please upload either a PDF, plain text or Word document file.
Please Note: If you are not currently a UW Tacoma student , you must first apply for admission to UW Tacoma.
Policies & Forms
Policies & Procedures (OFP&P)
Program Info Session
Quarter
Questions? Contact Us:
Raise Concerns & Questions
Resources and Forms (OFP&P)
Scholarships & Funding
SECTION 1: Applicant Information
SECTION 2: Prerequisite courses
SECTION 3: Personal Statement
September 15th
SOE HUB
Specialty Endorsement
Spring
Status message
Strong mentorship
Strong reputation with school districts
Telephone
The Bachelor of Arts in Education focuses on preparing ethical and reflective educators who transform learning, contribute to the community, exemplify professionalism, and promote diversity and justice in K-12 education. The program of study includes coursework and fieldwork in partner K-12 districts to merge cutting-edge research and theory with practice. Unique aspects of this program are the explicit integration of anti-racist, decolonizing, equity-centric, and inclusive pedagogies and practices, as well as partnering with communities, families/guardians, and school personnel to support a culturally responsive, holistic, and rigorous education for diverse learners.
The School of Education is committed to preparing the next generation of caring, anti-racist, decolonizing, and inclusive educators. What experiences and strengths do you bring to this commitment?
This program will prepare students to be recommended for Washington State Residency Teacher Certification in Elementary Education Endorsement and a required choice of a concentration in a high- demand area, a second endorsement, in either Special Education or Teaching English Language Learners. Successful completion of all program and state requirements will prepare students to begin a career as a classroom teacher upon graduation.
Tools
Unofficial transcript upload
Upload your unofficial transcript from the4 other school(s) making sure they include the relevant coursework.
UW Student ID Number (if you have one)
UW Tacoma Student Status
UW Tacoma’s School of Education prepares you to enter the teaching profession ready to support students with a wide range of special needs, exceptionalities and learning differences in both special education and general education inclusion settings. We train teachers in specially designed instruction and research-based inclusion strategies to meet the multiple learning and social-emotional needs of diverse children and youth.
Visit: West Coast Grocery 324 (M-F 9am - 5pm)
We are currently accepting applications for the Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Education program. If you have questions about the application or prerequisite coursework, please contact us at uwted@uw.edu
We prepare you to support English language learners across language proficiency levels in all content areas. The School of Education trains teachers for this diverse and fast-growing, high-need population by focusing on language growth, dual-language maintenance, academic development and socio-emotional well-being. We provide culturally/linguistically responsive and research-based curriculum and instruction in both coursework and field placements.
We value and welcome applications from all people, including international students! If you are applying from outside the United States, there may be additional requirements.
When did you apply to UW Tacoma?
When did you submit the Returning UWT Student Request form?
Winter
Your personal statement is an important part of your application for admission.
Your Personal Statement should be no more than 1,000 words. Please upload it here.
