Owner: uw-tacoma-electrical-engineering:pathway:department-must-approve-of-thesis-or-project-fit-within-option
Source: https://www.washington.edu/students/gencat/program/T/SchoolofEngineeringandTechnology-1023.html
Title: 

An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.
Academic Standards/Policies
The following standards apply to all students in the Computer Engineering program. These standards may apply in addition to other academic standards at the University of Washington Tacoma.
If a student does not achieve the required grade of 2.0 after repeating a required TCSS or TCES course, the student must request permission to take the course a third time. The petition to repeat a course and instructions are located on the School of Engineering and Technology website .
Courses in the Computer Engineering program may not be taken by correspondence (distance learning) without prior TCENGR faculty approval.
Courses in the Computer Engineering program may not be taken as S/NS (satisfactory/not satisfactory).
If a student wishes to substitute a course taken at another institution for a Computer Engineering required course, the student must submit a Petition to Substitute a Course form along with course syllabi to their academic advisor. The Electrical and Computer Engineering faculty will review the petition and inform the advisor if the substitution is approved. If a course is more than seven years old, the student will be required to repeat the course at UW Tacoma. Credit will not be awarded twice for the same course. A maximum of 15 credits may be awarded through course substitution.
Computer engineering transfer courses are held to the same 2.0 grade standard required for all Computer Engineering coursework.
Current UW Tacoma students wishing to change to a Computer Engineering major from another major are required to apply for admission to the major and must follow the major requirements in place at the time of admission.
Low Scholarship
Any undergraduate Computer Engineering student who is dismissed from the University for Low Scholarship will be removed from the Computer Engineering program.
Any undergraduate Computer Engineering student who is denied permission to repeat a required course, or who does not earn the required grade of a 2.0 or higher after repeating the course for a third time, will be removed from the Computer Engineering program.
After being removed from the Computer Engineering major, a student must re-apply for admission in order to continue as a TCENGR student in any status, matriculated or otherwise. The Admissions Committee will evaluate the student's application requesting re-admission, and any extenuating circumstances, and will then recommend action.
Engineering Labs
The School of Engineering and Technology has dedicated laboratories containing specialized equipment to support its programs. These laboratories are accessible to admitted School of Engineering and Technology students via assigned key card 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Back to Top
Program of Study: Major: Computer Science and Systems
Program Overview
The Computer Science and Systems (CSS) program provides a broad approach to computer science and software design. The CSS curriculum focuses on computer science theory, but with an equal emphasis on software application design methods relevant to the needs of local and regional industry. Students will acquire essential knowledge of object-oriented programming, algorithms and principles of abstraction, data structures, discrete structures, architecture, operating systems, software design and complex ethical and societal computing issues.
This program of study leads to the following credentials:
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Computer Science and Systems
Bachelor of Science degree with a major in Computer Science and Systems
Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Computer Science and Systems
Credential Overview
The Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science and Systems (CSS) provides students with a strong foundation in computing technology with an opportunity to apply the fundamental concepts and technologies of computer science to another academic discipline. Students graduate with a rigorous grounding in the principles of the software design process, and are highly informed users rather than primary builders of software.
Admission Requirements
Admission requirements for Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Computer Science and Systems
Admission to the Computer Science and Systems major is competitive.
To be considered for admission all applicants must meet the following minimum qualifications:
Completion of all prerequisite coursework with a cumulative GPA of at least a 2.50 in all college math, science, and computer science courses
Cumulative GPA of at least a 2.00 in all college course work
Completion of a minimum of 45 college-level credits
Prerequisites
Calculus (TMATH 124, or equivalent)
Statistics (TMATH 110, or equivalent)
Introduction to Programming(TCSS 101, or equivalent) or Programming for All (TCSS 141, or equivalent)
Introduction to Programming and Object-oriented programming (TCSS 142 and 143 or equivalent), highly recommend taking TCSS 101 or TCSS 141 prior to these courses
Completion of a minimum of 45 college-level credits
Cumulative GPA of at least a 2.00 in all college course work
Cumulative GPA of at least a 2.50 in TCSS 142, TCSS 143, TMATH 124, TMATH 110
15 credits of Social Science course work
How to Apply to the Major
All students applying to the Computer Science and Systems program must submit a completed BA in Computer Science and Systems major application form. Please visit the School of Engineering and Technology website for program application instructions. Students for BA are admitted in Autumn quarter only.
Completion Requirements
Graduation Requirements for Bachelor of Arts degree with a major in Computer Science and Systems
To qualify for graduation with a Bachelor's of Arts degree in Computer Science and Systems from the University of Washington Tacoma, a student must:
Apply for graduation in-person with an advisor two quarters before you expect to graduate
Complete all Computer Science and Systems prerequisites and required coursework with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.50 in those courses.
Be a matriculated Computer Science and Systems student in good academic standing (cumulative grade point average of 2.00 or higher) with the University of Washington Tacoma
