Owner: uw-tacoma-urban-studies:pathway:gis-option
Source: https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/urban-studies/ba-urban-studies
Title: BA in Urban Studies | School of Urban Studies | University of Washington Tacoma

https://www.tacoma.uw.edu/sites/default/files/styles/responsive_600x_/public/2021-01/22991133160_45e6bb9809_c.jpg 600w"
sizes="(min-width: 851px) 1940px, (max-width: 851px) 600px"
alt="UW Tacoma Urban Studies 4">
arrow_back_ios
arrow_forward_ios
Program Overview
The School of Urban Studies offers a Bachelor of Arts in Urban Studies. Beginning in spring 2026, we are excited to announce the introduction of revised degree requirements and options designed to better prepare our students to answer the challenges facing our cities today and into the future.
BA in Urban Studies students will choose from two formal options: Community Engagement or Geographic Information Systems (GIS). The degree starts with an introduction to the discipline of urban studies with course topics on the history and evolution of cities, urban research, and urban studies "in practice". The formal options deliver focused theory and skill-based courses that teach how to understand and impact the local and global dynamics of urban society.
Graduates are prepared for public or private-sector jobs in areas such as housing and community development, planning, transportation, government agencies, and social services. The program is also excellent preparation for those interested in graduate study in such fields as community development, public administration, law or urban planning/design.
Students admitted prior to spring 2026 may continue under their existing degree requirements or speak with an advisor about changing to the new degree plan.
Advantages of our program
Urban setting
Small class sizes
Flexible class offerings
Close interaction with faculty and staff
Diverse and growing student body
Collaboration with communities and institutions
Career and graduate school workshops
Interdisciplinary and innovative course of study
Study abroad opportunities
Scholarship opportunities
Overall goals
Provide students with a broad understanding of the problems and prospects of our metropolitan areas
Equip students with the knowledge and skills necessary to pursue careers related to the multi-faceted nature of urban studies
To serve as a resource, through service and research, to communities in the South Sound region
Specific objectives
Provide students with an understanding of the form and function of cities
Instill an awareness of problems and issues confronting metropolitan areas
Create an interdisciplinary curriculum that allows students to understand the complex inter-relationships that make up the urban environment and permits them to approach problems from a variety of perspectives
Equip students with the analytical skills needed to undertake research in an urban milieu
Keeping in mind these goals, graduates of the program are expected to:
Approach urban issues from an interdisciplinary perspective
Apply analytic and quantitative skills to assess and develop strategies to resolve urban issues
Compare and contrast approaches used in designing and undertaking research in urban studies
Demonstrate effective written and oral communication skills
Demonstrate appreciation for diverse nature of urban populations and social justice issues many of these populations face
Degree Options
Urban Studies majors select one of two formal options: Community Engagement or Geographic Information Systems (GIS) .
BA Urban Studies: Community Engagement
Examines the production and development of cities from different community perspectives and teaches how cities are planned and built, and the power dynamics that influence inclusion and exclusion from urban spaces and political processes. Explores new strategies and builds new skills in community engagement for producing better cities and improving urban conditions.
BA Urban Studies: Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
Prepares students to solve complex social, economic, and environmental problems by combining GIS (geographic information systems) based approaches to mapping and spatial analysis with a classical and theoretically critical foundation in urban studies.
Admission Requirements
If you have completed the prerequisites listed below, you can be considered for admission to the Bachelor of arts in Urban Studies:
Cumulative GPA of 2.00 in all college coursework
Completion of a minimum of 40 college-level credits
5 credits of English composition
Meet with the School of Urban Studies Academic Advisor to discuss degree requirements and submit a declaration of major form.
The Urban Studies major admits students every quarter.
How to Declare Your Major
If you are a current UW Tacoma student
Step 1: To declare Urban Studies as your major, please contact the Academic Advisor to discuss your academic plan.
Step 2: An official request will be submitted on your behalf to the Registrar's Office.
If you are not a current UW Tacoma Student
Please visit the UW Tacoma Admissions website to submit the appropriate application or to connect with them.
Transfer students meeting the above requirements may apply directly to the major.
First-year students will need to be admitted to UW Tacoma and complete the above requirements prior to declaring your major.
Curriculum
Major Requirements
The curriculum consists of 70-71 credits, depending on formal option and course selection:
Shared Curriculum courses (20 credits)
Foundation courses (25-26 credits)
Formal options ( choose one option ) (25 credits)
In addition to the coursework required for the major, students are required to complete general university requirements and electives, and to bring their total number of credits to 180. Running regular degree audits and asking your advisor for a degree planning worksheet here will help track your progress through the program.
Shared Curriculum Courses (20 credits)
T URB 101 Exploring Cities (5)
T URB 103 Urban Studies in Practice (3)
T URB 110 Urban Data Analysis (5)
T URB 200 Introduction to Urban Research (5)
T URB 403 Professional Development for Urban Careers (2)
Foundation Courses (25 credits, choose 5 courses)
T URB 210 Urban Society & Culture (5)
